Department - Specify the department for which to calculate labor availability.
The system totals employee exceptions for Trade and Department to calculate
the total amount of labor hours available for a specific time-frame.
Enter the Start Date and End Date of the period for which to calculate available labor.
End Date must be later than or equal to Start Date.
4. Click Calculate.
5. Click Close.

Viewing labor utilization
View labor utilization percentages for each calendar day.
To view labor utilization:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to view labor utilization if you use
multi-organization security.
Schedule By - Select one of the following options:
• Employee - Select to view the schedule by employee.
The system displays Employee. Enter for Employee, the Employee for whom you
wish to view the labor utilization for the date selected on the calendar.
• Trade/Department - Select to view the schedule by trade/department.
The system displays Trade and Department. Enter for Trade, the trade for which
you wish to view the labor utilization for the date selected on the calendar. You
may also enter, for Department, the department for which you wish to view the
labor utilization to further filter the trade records for the date selected on the
calendar.
3. Place the cursor over a calendar day to view the employee or trade/department

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

776 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

utilization percentage for that day. The colors indicating labor utilization only appear on
the calendar after you calculate labor availability. See this table when viewing the labor
utilization.

Color

Significance

Gray

Non-working day for the organization or no labor
scheduled for this day.

Green

Total scheduled hours are less than total available hours,
and labor utilization is less than 80%.

Yellow

Total scheduled hours are between 80% and 100% of total
available hours.

Red

Total scheduled hours exceed the total available hours.

Scheduling or rescheduling work orders
Schedule unscheduled or backlogged work orders. Reschedule work orders as necessary. To
schedule or reschedule work orders:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to schedule work if you use multiorganization security.
Schedule By - Select one of the following options:
• Employee - Select to schedule by employee. The system displays Employee.
Enter, for Employee, the Employee for whom you wish to schedule the work.
• Trade/Department - Select to schedule by trade/department. The system displays
Trade and Department. Enter, for Trade and Department, the trade and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

777 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

department for which you wish to schedule the work.
• Auto Refresh - Select for the system to automatically refresh the Daily Schedule
list after scheduling an activity on the calendar. If you do not select Auto Refresh,
the activity will not automatically appear in the Daily Schedule list until you
manually click Refresh.
See this table when scheduling or rescheduling work orders:

Function

Procedure

Schedule unscheduled work orders

Select Unscheduled WOs for Dataspy in
the Activities section of the form, and then
select a work order from the list and drag it
to the day on the calendar for which to
schedule it. The system creates a new
work order schedule record.

Schedule backlogged work orders

Select Backlogged WOs for Dataspy in the
Activities section of the form, and selects
a work order from the list and drag it to the
day on the calendar for which to schedule
it. The system creates a new work order
schedule record.

Reschedule work orders

Select the work order to reschedule in the
Daily Schedule list, and then drag it to the
day on the calendar for which to
reschedule it. You must select either
today’s date or a future date as the
reschedule date on the calendar.

Viewing work order comments
View work order planning and work order activity-related comments on the Work Order


Scheduling form.
To view work order comments:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Select a work order for which to view comments from the Activities list, and then click
View Comments.
3. Specify this information:
Comments Type - Select one of the following options:
• Activity - Select to view comments associated with the work order activity.
• Task Instructions - Select to view task instructions associated with the task
defined on the work order activity.
• Work Order - Select to view work requested comments associated with the work
order.
4. Click Close.

Changing work order status
Change work order status on the Work Order Scheduling form.
To change work order status:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Select a work order and a daily schedule record for which to change the status, and
then click Actions > Change WO Status.
3. Specify this information:
New Status - Select the status to which to change the work order.
You may only select a New Status with a system status of R.
4. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

779 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Freezing and unfreezing activity schedules
Temporarily freeze a schedule to compare the actual work done against the work that you
scheduled. Frozen activity schedules cannot be updated.
To freeze and unfreeze activity schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Right-click on the form, and then choose Freeze/Unfreeze.
3. Specify this information:
Freeze/Unfreeze - Select Freeze to freeze the schedule, or select Unfreeze to unfreeze
the schedule.
From Date/To Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for the freeze period.
Department - Specify the department for which to freeze or unfreeze schedules.
4. Click Submit.

Balancing the workload
Balance the workload by adjusting the schedule. The WO Load Balancing form consists of
three pages: the Parameters page, on which you define the selection criteria for locating the
work orders to balance; the Preview page, on which you can preview the work orders prior to
actually balancing them and select or clear the work orders to process as necessary; and the
Balance Load page, on which you can balance the work order load.
The Generate Options section of the Parameters page enables you to specify the manner in
which the system processes the work orders.
The Preview page allows you to preview all of the work orders selected for processing based
on the selection parameters, enabling you to select or clear the work orders to balance. You
can select or clear individual work orders for processing, or you can select or clear all work
orders for processing.
Balancing the workload for work orders of Type ST (standing work order) or MEC
(multiple equipment child) is not supported.
The Balance Load page enables you to view labor availability and reschedule work.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

780 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Load Balancing.
2. Specify this information:
Work Order Org. - Specify the organization to which the work order belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
3. Specify selection criteria as necessary in the Selection Parameters section of the form.
You can enter wild cards for the Department, PM Schedule, Project Budget,
WO Type, Priority, Trade, Status, Reported By, Work Order, Assigned To, and
Assigned By parameters. Enter the first character of the parameter followed by a
percentage sign, and then click Process. For example, if you enter E% for Trade, the
system retrieves all work orders with a trade that begin with the letter "E" on the
Preview tab.
4. Specify this information:
Schedule Window (Days) - Specify the number of days into the future for which to
calculate labor availability.
Sort By - Select whether to sort by Reported Date or by Scheduled Start Date.
5. Click Process.
6. Select each work order you wish to balance, or you can clear each work order you do
not wish to balance as necessary.
To select all the work orders at once, select Select. To clear all the work orders
at once, clear Select.
7. Click Lock Selected Work Orders.
8. Select a work order, and then click the next arrow to move the current work order ahead
in time. Click the previous arrow to move the current work order back in time. You may
also click a specific date cell to change the work order date. In the lower section of the
form, the system displays colors to represent labor availability versus labor required for
the work order:
• Green - Available labor hours exceed required labor hours
• Yellow - Required labor hours equal available labor hours

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

781 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Red - Required labor hours exceed available labor hours
By adjusting work orders in the schedule, you can reschedule them at times when
enough labor is available, and thus balance the workload.
9. Click Update Activity to update the work order activity.
10. Specify this information:
Activity-Trade - Select the activity-trade for which to update the trade or start date.
Trade - Specify the trade to update for the activity.
Start Date - Specify the starting date to update for the activity.
11. Click Save.
12. Click Close Session and Update Work Orders.

Viewing work order details while balancing the workload
View work order details while balancing the workload for a work order to access specific
information about a work order that can affect the scheduling of the work order, such as the
location, priority, start and due dates, etc.
To view work order details while balancing the workload:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Load Balancing.
2. Generate, preview, and lock the list of work orders to balance as necessary. See
Balancing the workload.
3. Select the work order for which to view details, and then click View WO Details.
4. View the work order details for the work order to balance.
5. Click Close.

Booking labor corrections for work orders
Book labor corrections for existing booked labor records on the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

782 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Corrections can only be made to records that have not yet been corrected and are
not themselves a correction.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Click the Book Labor tab.
3. Select the record for which to create a correction, and then click Create Correction.
4. In the Book Labor Correction pop-up window, specify the desired corrections.
5. Click Submit.

Dispatching employees to work order activities on a map
Dispatch employees or a crew to open work order activities on a map.
Select work order activities for which to dispatch employees, from a list or from a map.
Choose employees or crews to assign to the work order activities based on their qualifications
to perform the work as well as their availability to complete the work.
1. Select Work > Work Orders > GIS Map WO Dispatching.
2. Click the Parameters tab.
3. Specify this information:
Work Order Org. - Specify the organization of the work order for which to perform work.
Dispatch Date - Specify the date the crew will be dispatched.
Employee Shift - Specify the shift from which to select qualified workers to complete
the work.
Map - Specify the map to use when selecting the equipment for which to perform the
work order activities.
4. Click Save.

Deleting dispatched labor records
View or delete current dispatch records for employees or crews.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

783 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Only current dispatch labor records are shown and available. Completed dispatch
records are not shown on the map or in any of the panels on the screen.
1. Select Work > Work Orders > GIS Map WO Dispatching.
2. On the map, select the employees or the crew whose labor records you want to delete,
right-click, and then select View/Delete Dispatch Labor. The Dispatch Labor pop up
window is opened.
Alternately, you may select the labor records to delete in the Available Crews or
Available Employees panels below the map. Right-click the record in the panel, and
select View/Delete Dispatch Labor.
3. Select the check box of the dispatched labor record(s) to delete.
4. Click Delete Selected Records. Total Dispatched Hrs. is recalculated based on the
remaining labor records in the grid.
5. Click Close.

Creating crews for dispatched labor
Create crews to dispatch work order activities to when the crew is geographically closest to
the work area; and one, several, or all employees in the crew meets the qualifications of the
work order activity.
Crews can be:
• temporary
• permanent
• made up of employees with unique qualifications for special tasks
• expanded by adding new employees
• downsized by removing existing employees
• enhanced by adding temporary employee replacements
You can also modify crews by adding or removing employees from the crew permanently, or
for a temporary period of time. As an example, a dispatcher may need to add an employee to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

784 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the crew temporarily when a permanent crew employee calls in sick or goes on vacation. To
temporarily add an employee to the crew, the dispatcher assigns the appropriate date range
for the substitute employee.
All employees and crews available for dispatching on this screen have met the
minimum qualifications to perform work for the selected work order activity for the date range
determined by the Dispatch Date plus work order activity Duration.
1. Open the GIS Map WO Dispatching screen.
2. Select the work order activity for which to dispatch labor.
3. Click Create Crew. The Create Crew pop up window is opened.
4. Optionally, if this crew is being created for a temporary period of time, select the
Temporary check box, and then specify the date the "temporary" crew will expire in
Expiration Date.
5. Optionally, select the Show Available Only check box to only display available
employees and crews that have enough remaining available hours to perform the
selected WO activities.
6. In the Crew field, specify a unique code or name to identify this crew, and then specify a
description of this crew in the adjacent field.
If no name or unique code is specified for the new crew, a code is automatically
assigned when the new record is saved.
7. Next, specify this Crew Details information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the work order for the work being performed.
Supervisor - Optionally, assign a supervisor for the crew.
End Date - Optionally, specify an end date for the employees assigned to this crew if it
is a permanent crew which will not expire.
Profile Picture - Optionally, associate a picture with this crew.
8. Next, add employees to the new crew, or select a crew, to which to dispatch the work
order activities.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

785 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To add employees to the crew, browse to the Available Employees section, and on
each employee card, choose one the following right-click options:
• Dispatch the work order activity to the employee.
• View the employee's description and trade information.
• View or delete the dispatched labor record for the employee.
Employees selected in this step are shown in the Proposed Crew
section on the screen.
• To select a crew, browse to the Available Crews section, and on the crew card,
choose one of the following options:
• Dispatch the work order activity to the crew.
• View or delete the dispatched labor record.
• Edit the crew.
The crew selected in this step is shown in the Proposed Crew
section on the screen.
9. Next, review the employees or the crew isolated for the purpose of creating this new
crew in the Proposed Crew section. Drag and drop individual employees or a full crew to
the Proposed Crew section, or remove employees from this section to modify the new
crew as necessary until the ideal crew is obtained.
10. When no further modifications to the crew are necessary, click Create Crew and
Dispatch. The new crew is shown in the Dispatched Employees/Crews section on the
GIS Map WO Dispatching screen for the selected work order activity.

Modifying existing crews for dispatched labor
Modify existing crews for dispatched labor. Add or remove employees for a temporary period
of time, or on a permanent basis.
1. Open the GIS Map WO Dispatching screen, and browse to the Dispatched
Crew/Employee section.
2. In the Available Crew section, find the crew you want to edit, and then right click on the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

786 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

crew record, and click Edit Crew.
3. In the Edit Crew pop up window, specify this information:
End Date - Specify the end date for the crew if this is a permanent crew.
Expiration Date - Specify the date the crew expires if this is a temporary crew. Once
the crew expires, the crew will no longer show in Crews lookups throughout the system.
Supervisor - Specify the supervisor for the crew.
4. Add or remove employees to the modified crew as needed.
5. Click Save. If the end date or expiration date is updated, the end date for each
employee in the crew is set to the new date. The start date for any employees added to
the crew in this instance is set to the dispatch date.

Completing work
This section describes the process for completing work information. You may close work
orders on the Closing page or on the Work Order Quick Close form. Depending on your
particular system parameter configuration, you may or may not be able to complete
transactions for the closed work order. Also, in certain cases, you may not be able to close
work orders if there are still purchases outstanding. Reopen closed work orders if necessary.

Closing work orders
Close completed work orders.
If you close a PM work order, the system generates the next PM work order. You
may also close work orders on the Work Order Quick Close page. See Closing work orders
on the quick close page.
You cannot close a work order if any of the following conditions is true:
• If Prevent WO Completion is selected for the Equipment on the work order header or
any of the associated MEC work orders
• If the WOCLPOUT installation parameter is set to NO and the work order or one of the
MEC work orders is referenced on an active purchase order or requisition line

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

787 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• If the WOCLPOUT installation parameter is set to NO and the work order or one of the
MEC work orders contains one or more direct purchase parts that have been received
to a Store but not yet issued to the work order
• If the EVTCASCD installation parameter is set to NO and the work order is the parent of
at least one open dependent child work order
The setting of the EVTCASCD installation parameter does not affect the Status
of a MEC work order when you change the Status of the parent multiple equipment
order because the system always cascades the Status of the parent multiple equipment
work order to the associated MEC work orders.
To close work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order to close, and then click the Closing tab.
3. Specify this information:
Status - Select Completed as the status of the work order.
If you close a work order that is a template standard work order and that has
children attached, the system recalculates and updates the status of all child work
orders attached. If you close the last child work order in a sequence, the system
recalculates the requested start and end dates for all child work orders.
Depending on your system configuration, you may not be able to close a parent work
order until all dependent child work orders have been closed. Contact your system
administrator for more information.
You can reopen a work order after it is closed if the REOPENPM installation parameter
is set to YES and you have the proper status authorization to do so. However reopening a parent work order does not affect any child work orders of the parent work
order regardless of whether the child work order is dependent on the parent or the
setting of the EVTCASCD installation parameter.
If the work order is a multiple equipment work order, then the system updates the Status
of all MEC work orders associated with the work order to the Status of the parent work
order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

788 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment - Specify the equipment on which the work was performed.
If the equipment record was previously flagged as Prevent WO Completion,
you will not be able to close the work order.
Start Date - Specify the date on which the work started.
Date Completed - Specify the date on which the work was completed.
When closing a multiple equipment work order, the system copies the Date
Completed to any open MEC work orders associated with the parent multiple
equipment work order and overwrites the existing Date Completed on the MEC work
orders. However, the system does not overwrite the Date Completed on any MEC work
orders that were completed prior to closing parent multiple equipment work order.
Downtime Cost - Specify the cost of the downtime to the production process.
Downtime Hours - Specify the number of hours that the equipment was down.
Problem Code - Specify the code of the problem that required work.
Failure Code - Specify the reason that the equipment or component failed.
Cause Code - Specify the problem cause code, i.e., the root cause of the problem.
Action Code - Specify the code of the action taken to correct the problem.
If the work order is a multiple equipment work order and you modify the
Problem Code, Failure Code, Cause Code, and/or Action Code, the system
cascades the change to the corresponding codes on any MEC work orders that are not
completed, overwriting any existing values.
4. Click Save Record.

Closing work orders on the quick close page
Quickly close completed work orders on the Work Order Quick Close page. When you enter
a work order number, the system automatically enters a status of Completed and enters
today’s date as the date completed so that you may quickly close the work order. However,
you may also update any information about the work order and book additional hours for the
work order activities on this page.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

789 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If you close a PM work order, the system generates the next PM work order as long
as the PM work order is not a duplicate.
You may also close work orders on the Closing tab. See Closing work orders.
To close work orders on the Work Order Quick Close page:
1. Select Work > WO Quick Close.
2. Specify this information:
Work Order - Specify the work order number of the work order you wish to close.
The system automatically populates the work order description, Organization, and New
Status with a value of Completed.
Equipment - Specify the equipment on which the work was performed.
If the work order is a multiple equipment work order, then Equipment (on the
work order header) is protected.
New Status - Select Completed as the new status of the work order.
If you close a work order that is a template standard work order and that has
children attached, the system recalculates and updates the status of all child work
orders attached. If you close the last child work order in a sequence, the system
recalculates the requested start and end dates for all child work orders.
A parent work order cannot be closed until all dependent child work orders have been
closed.
Start Date - Specify the date and time on which the work started.
Date Completed - Specify the date on which the work was completed.
Downtime Cost - Specify the cost of the downtime to the production process.
Downtime Hours - Specify the number of hours that the equipment was down.
Problem Code - Specify the code of the problem that required work.
Failure Code - Specify the reason that the equipment or component failed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

790 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Cause Code - Specify problem cause code, i.e., the root cause of the problem.
Action Code - Specify the action taken to correct the problem.
Closing Comments - Enter closing comments about the work order.
Specify the following information to book additional hours to the work order:
Activity-Trade - Select the activity-trade performing the work for which to book labor
hours.
When you select an Activity-Trade, the system temporarily protects Work
Order to prevent an accidental change during the process of booking hours. However,
upon saving the booked hours or clicking Clear, the system enables Work Order and
clears the Activity-Trade. However, if you manually clear Activity-Trade, Work Order
remains protected.
If the selected Work Order is a multiple equipment work order, then the system enables
Equipment in the details section of the form, and it is required. If you clear ActivityTrade for a multiple equipment work order, the system also clears the Equipment,
Equipment Org., and Related Work Order.
Employee - Specify the personnel performing the work for which to book hours.
Date - Specify the date on which the work was performed.
Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• All Equipment - Enter All Equipment to evenly distribute the booked labor to
each equipment record on the work order. Upon saving the transaction, the
system creates the labor booking records and applies them to each related work
order for each equipment and selected activity. The Rate applicable to the multiple
equipment work order will also be applied to all MEC work orders.
The system automatically applies any remainder of the Hours Worked to
the last equipment record added to the work order.
If you select All Equipment for Equipment and at least one of the related work
orders has Completed status (or equivalent user status), the system displays a
message enabling you to select whether to distribute the labor hours against only

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

791 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

open related work orders or against all equipment.
Also, the system disregards the setting of the COMDAYS installation parameter
when posting labor booking transactions if you select All Equipment.
• WO Header Equipment - Enter WO Header Equipment to apply the booked
labor to the work order header only.
• Equipment - Enter a specific Equipment record to apply the booked labor to the
selected Equipment and the corresponding Related Work Order. The system
automatically populates Equipment Org. and Related Work Order from the
selected Equipment record. See Adding equipment to work orders to split work
order costs.
Type of Hours - Select the type of hours worked (e.g., hourly rate, overtime rate,
corrective booking, etc.).
Hours - Specify the number of hours spent performing the work.
End Time - Specify the scheduled start time and end time of the work order
activity.
3. Click Save Hours.
4. Repeat these steps as necessary to book any additional hours against the work order
activity.
5. Click Save Record.

Reopening closed work orders
Reopen closed work orders when changes to the work order are required or when requisitions
or purchase orders related to the closed work order must be generated. Only users with
proper authorization may reopen closed work orders. Depending on your system
configuration, you may not be able to reopen closed work orders. Contact your system
administrator for more information.
To reopen closed work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

792 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the work order to reopen, and then click the Closing tab.
3. Specify this information:
Status - Select Released as the status of the work order.
4. Click Save Record.
Reopened is selected when the work order is saved.

Entering meter readings for work order equipment
Enter meter readings for equipment defined on a work order. You can view recent meter
readings for equipment, and you can also add a new meter reading for equipment on a work
order.
You can delete a meter reading if you find that the reading has been entered in error;
however, you cannot modify the value of an existing meter reading.
In many cases, the meter for a piece of equipment on a work order is the child meter of a
meter attached to the parent equipment in an asset hierarchy. In such cases, the new meter
reading needs to be entered/submitted for the parent equipment/meter even though you are
entering the reading via the child equipment/meter on the work order. Also, the new reading
must also roll down to all children of the parent within the asset hierarchy. Use Target
Equipment to indicate the equipment for which to add the meter reading.
The Target Equipment for a meter reading is the equipment of the work order only if
the equipment meter is a standalone meter.
However, if the equipment on the work order is a child in a hierarchy; and both the child and
parent equipment have the same unit of measure for the meter usage definition; and the
usage definitions are defined as parent-child meters, then Target Equipment can also be a
parent of the equipment on the work order.
To enter meter readings for work order equipment:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order containing the equipment for which to enter meter readings, and
then click the Meter Readings tab.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

793 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Target Equipment - Modify the equipment for which to enter meter readings as
necessary. Target Equipment is automatically populated with the top-level equipment in
the meter structure and Equipment with the equipment defined on the work order.
If you select a new Target Equipment, all the fields are updated on the form based on
the new combination of the Target Equipment and UOM, with the exception of
Equipment, Equipment Org., and Equipment Description.
The meter for the Equipment on a work order can be the child meter of a
meter attached to a parent of the Equipment. In such cases, the parent equipment and
parent meter should receive the new reading submitted for the child meter, and the new
reading must roll down to all of the child equipment of the parent.
The Target Equipment is the Equipment on the work order header only if the
equipment meter is a stand-alone meter. However, if the Equipment on the work order
header is a child equipment in an asset hierarchy whose parent equipment has the
same UOM on the usage definition and the usage definitions are defined as parent-child
meters, then the Target Equipment may be the parent of the Equipment on the work
order header.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to enter the meter reading if the work
order is a multiple equipment work order.
If a usage definition exists for the equipment, then the system automatically populates
Equipment with the equipment on the work order header. However, if a usage definition
does not exist for any of the work order equipment or if the work order is not a multiple
equipment work order, then Equipment is protected.
If you select a new Equipment, the system updates all the fields on the form based on
the new combination of the Target Equipment, UOM, and Equipment.
UOM - Select the unit of measure.
If the primary UOM on the equipment record is equal to one of the existing
usage definitions for the equipment, the system automatically populates UOM with the
primary UOM of the equipment.
Entry Type - Select one of the following options:
Reading - Select to enter the current meter reading.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

794 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You may enter Reading only if the meter is selected as Up/Down Meter on the
Meters tab of the Assets, Positions, Systems, or Locations page.
Difference - Select to enter the difference between the last reading and the current
reading.
Date/Time - Specify the date and time of the meter reading.
New Value - Specify the meter reading value.
4. Click Submit.
This table shows how the system updates the Meter Readings list with the following
information:

Field

Value

Last Value

Indicates the value of the previous meter
reading.
Last Value is zero when the new
meter reading record is the first entry made
for the UOM of the Target Equipment.

Meter

Identifies the meter of the reading.

Meter Rollover Point

Indicates the value at which the meter rolls
over.