Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

HxGN EAM Help
Hexagon Documentation

Generated 01/04/2024

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

HxGN EAM Help
Use this online help to familiarize yourself with the application and to perform tasks in the
application. You can enable accessibility mode which makes the application entirely
keyboard-navigable and screen reader friendly.
• See Navigating the application in accessibility mode.
• See Enabling accessibility mode for users.
It may be necessary to update your internet settings to properly run EAM on
Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Safari, or Microsoft Edge with Chromium.
• See Configuring your web browser.

User Help

Administrator Help

•

EAM user tasks

• HxGN EAM System Administrator Guide

•

EAM reports user tasks

• HxGN EAM Configuration Tasks for GIS

•

HxGN EAM User Tasks for GIS

Release Notes

•

EAM 12.0.1

Feature Briefs

Features Briefs for EAM
<https://docs.hexagonali.com/search

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

3 of 2039

•

May 2023 production update

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

/all?query=feature+briefs&
filters=PPMCategory_custom~%2522Feature+
Briefs%2522*PPMProduct~%2522HxGN+EAM
%2522&sort=last_update&content-lang=enUS>

Customer Support and Technical User Forum
Hexagon Policy Against Software Piracy
Copyright © 2023-2024, Intergraph Corporation <https://hexagon.com/company/divisions/asset-lifecycle-intelligence> and/or its subsidiaries
and affiliates
12.0.1
Published Tuesday, August 1, 2023 at 1:44 PM

What is HxGN EAM?
HxGN EAM is a fully Web-architected asset management system that provides unparalleled
capability for cost-effective, asset-intensive, and performance-oriented maintenance
operations. Configurable and customizable, HxGN EAM is designed to enhance workflow and
increase production. HxGN EAM also contributes directly to your company’s profitability by
helping ensure that physical assets are maintained properly and efficiently.
HxGN EAM provides users with an intuitive and versatile HTML5 interface for easily
accessing the information and functionality that best targets user-specific roles. Because
every enterprise comprises a combination of users, HxGN EAM gives customers the choice of
full access or limited access for requesting, review and approvals. HxGN EAM delivers an
easy-to-use and easy-to-configure zero-footprint web-based interface.
HxGN EAM offers the very best in flexible, powerful, and proven technology.
Flexible

Users access HxGN EAM through a standard Internet browser from anywhere at any time. It
minimizes network traffic and eliminates expensive hardware purchases. And because HxGN
EAM is built on open Internet standards such as J2EE and XML, it is easy to integrate with
other systems.
HxGN EAM is available in international languages to support organizations worldwide. See
the latest release notes for a comprehensive list of supported languages.
Powerful

HxGN EAM offers a suite of powerful features, which includes:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

4 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• A suite of asset management features –from asset hierarchy management, to audit
trails, to preventive maintenance, and more
• The ability to view and manage assets across multiple organizations and in multiple
languages and currencies
• Powerful advanced modules –such as the Work module, the Equipment module, the
Materials module, and the Projects module –to allow users to implement a solution that
is specific to their organization’s requirements
• Simple, user interface system administration that minimizes the strain of IT resources.

Using this help
You can use this online help for instructions on how to operate the application. Use the
sections below to understand the organization and conventions of our online help system.
Procedural help

The procedural topics provided will give you a greater understanding of the EAM application
and how the system works.
Access procedural help topics by clicking the drop-down arrow on the left-hand side of any
screen, and then selecting Help.
• A new browser window is opened with a table of contents and a help topic shown.
• Navigate to procedural help topics by expanding the table of contents or by performing a
keyword search on the Search tab.
Page help

Page help is considered context-sensitive and is specific to each individual screen in the
application.
You can access help for each page in the application by clicking the Help icon on the toolbar
of that page.
• A new browser window is opened that contains a description of the page, and a list of
links to procedural help topics related to the page.
Default navigation screen menus

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

5 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EAM is a scalable and highly configurable application which means screens can be moved to
any location within your organization's default menu specifications by your system
administrator. To find the default, out-of-the-box location of a screen in the EAM application,
consult the tables in the Appendix.
If the screens listed are not in your menu, contact your system administrator to locate
the screen navigation.
See Navigating default screen locations.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

6 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EAM user tasks
This guide contains procedures for basic operations, asset management, materials
management, data collection, purchasing management, work management, budget
management, inspections management, project management, reports, and call center
management within the application. This guide is intended for the EAM user.
Objectives

This guide contains procedures for basic operations, asset management, materials
management, data collection, purchasing management, work management, budget
management, inspections management,project management, reports, and call center
management within the application.
Intended audience

This guide is intended for the EAM user.
Organization of this guide

This table shows the sections of the guide:

Section

Description

Basics

Instructions on basic operation of the application

Asset Management

Instructions on how to control the organization and use
of equipment

Materials Management

Instructions on how to maintain materials inventory
using an online catalog of parts, stores, manufacturers,
and suppliers

Purchasing management

Instructions on how to facilitate the process of
purchasing goods

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

7 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work management

Instructions on how to manage work by creating,
planning, and scheduling work orders

Inspection management

Instructions on how to control preventative
maintenance (PM) functions within your organization

Calibration management

Instructions on how to calibrate data to ensure the
accuracy of your equipment

Project management

Instructions on how to define special projects in
addition to the work defined in the work management
and asset management modules

Fleet management

Instructions on how to manage fleet motor pools and
the fleet billing process

HxGN EAM Microsoft Project
interface

Instructions on how to facilitate work order scheduling
and resources assignment in MS Project and the
application database

Asset management services

Instructions on how to operate a business unit and
charge the cost of maintenance work to the customers
for whom the work is performed

Budgets

Instructions on how to define budgets to tract
expenses and set spending limits for specified time
periods or items

Contracts

Instructions on how to define purchasing contracts for
details on agreements for parts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

8 of 2039

Call Center

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Instruction on ho to handle incoming customer
requests for action, information, or comments

Basics
This section describes HxGN EAM features and outlines the procedures for basic operation.

Managing your account
Change your e-mail address, system language, and/or login password as necessary. You may
also enable the application to run in accessibility mode.
If you change your user password and have any report schedules in Advanced
Reporting, you must renew your credentials in HxGN EAM Advanced Reporting. Contact your
system administrator for more information.
1. Click My Account on the header.
2. Optionally, click the Accessibility Mode check box to enable the application to run in
accessibility mode.
3. Specify this information:
Success Msg. Timeout - Specify the time frame for which you want success messages
to display in the message bar.
If you modify Success Msg. Timeout or Language, you must log out, close all
browser sessions, and then log in to see the changes.
E-mail - Specify a new e-mail address as necessary.
Language - Specify the language to use for your account.
If LDAP is enabled, the Current Password, New Password, and Confirm
Password fields are not displayed
4. Optionally, to change your password, specify this information:
Current Password - Specify the password you used to log in.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

9 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

New Password - Specify the new password.
Confirm Password - Re-enter the new password.
5. Click Save Record.

Working with documents
Associating documents with records
Associate existing documents with records using the Documents tab on any record in the
system. Attach documents to work orders, equipment, customer requests, parts, task plans,
standard work orders, call center records, and most records in the system. For example, a
technician creating an equipment record can attach schematics, drawings, or warranty
documents to the equipment record.
Optionally, when associating documents to work orders or purchase order records, specify if
the document is copied or printed with the work orders. You may also associate documents to
task plan jobs on the Jobs and Documents tabs of the Task Plans form.
The copy and print options displayed on the Documents pop-up window change dynamically
depending on the record to which you are linking a document. Documents can be of any file
type. The documents being associated must have already been created using the
Documents form.
You can only print document attachments that are Adobe Acrobat Portable
Document Format (.PDF) files for work orders.
1. On any form, click the Documents tab.
2. Click Add Document.
3. Specify this information:
Document - Specify the document to associate.
Choose one or more of the following options as necessary:
• Print with Work Order/Print with Purchase Order - Select to enable the option
to print document attachments when you print the work order or purchase order. If
selected, the .PDF attachments from the purchase order or work order are printed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

10 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Print with Work Order is only displayed for document attachments associated
with assets, systems,positions, categories, profiles, work orders, and preventive
maintenance schedules. Print with Purchase Order is only displayed for
documents associated with parts and purchase orders.
• Copy to Work Order/Copy to Purchase Order - Select to enable the option to
copy any document attachments associated with a part on a purchase order line to
the purchase order or to copy any document attachments associated with a piece
of equipment on a work order to the work order. If selected, the document
attachments from the part,equipment, PM, or standard work order are copied to
the purchase order or new work order.
Copy to Work Order is only displayed for document attachments associated with
the OBJ, STWO,or PPM entities. Copy to Purchase Order is only displayed for
document attachments associated with the PART entity.
You can only select to copy a document attachment to a purchase order
or work order when you originally create the purchase order or work order. After
saving a purchase order or work order to the database, modifying the copy
settings for document attachments for a part, equipment, PM,or standard work
order will not roll down and affect any existing purchase orders or work orders.Any
changes made to the copy settings for document attachments after initially saving
them to the database will only affect any purchase orders or work orders for the
part, equipment, PM, or standard work order when a new purchase order or work
order is generated for the modified part, equipment,PM, or standard work order.
Choose one of the following options:
• Copy Link - Select to copy the link to the document.
• Copy Document - Select to make a copy the document and link the copy to
the work order.
• Print with Report - Select to enable the option to print document attachments
when you print reports. If selected, the.PDF attachments from the report are
printed.
Print with Report is not displayed for document attachments associated with
assets, systems,positions, work orders, parts, purchase orders, or customer
requests.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

11 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Although the Print with Report check box is available on all entities, only
some reports support the Print Attachments option.
4. Optionally, to view a document before you save the record, click View Document.
5. Click Save.

Uploading documents to the application
Upload a document from your local system to the web server. Once the document is
uploaded, a new document record is created in the system. For example, a foreman may
create a piece of equipment and attach a document such as a drawing, a warranty, or other
schematic to the equipment by uploading the document to the equipment record.
If the new document record is created from the Documents tab of a form, the new document
record is associated to the selected record on the specific form.
1. On any form, click the Documents tab.
2. Click Create/Upload Document.
3. Specify this information:
Document Code - Specify a unique code identifying the document, and then specify a
description of the document in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization to which the document will belong.
Choose one of the following options as necessary:
• Create File System Document - Select to create a file system document.
• Upload Document - Select to upload a document.
File Name - Specify the file name, or click Browse to find the document on your
machine.
File Path - Specify the file path to the location where the document is saved on
your computer.
IDM Document Type - Specify the document type if you are uploading it from the
Infor Document Manager system.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

12 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Effective Date - Specify the date to make the document available in the system to
users of this organization.
Expiration Date - Specify the date the document at which the document is no
longer available to those users in the system.
Title - Specify the title of the document.
4. Click Submit.

Managing comments
Manage comments for most modules in the application using the Comments page. You can
also specify whether the comment should print with the specified record.
Access the Add/Edit Comments page via the Add/Edit Comments link on certain forms.
The procedures for entering comments are the same, regardless of how you access the
Add/Edit Comments page.

Adding comments
Enter comments on records.
To add comments:
1. From any form which supports comments, select the record for which to add comments,
and then choose one of the following options:
• Using the Comments tab - Click the Comments tab. The Comments page is
displayed. Click Add Comment. The Add/Edit Comments popup is opened with
HTML Editor Capabilities.
• Using the Add/Edit Comments link - Click Add/Edit Comments for a selected
record on the details tab of a form that supports adding comments, for example,
the Activities tab of the Work Orders form. The Add/Edit Comments popup is
opened with HTML Editor Capabilities.
Set HTMLCOMM to ON to view the HTML Editor toolbar. Contact your
system administrator for more information on installation parameters.
HTML formatting is not supported in Cognos Reports. Comments are displayed as

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

13 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

text without formatting.
2. Specify this information:
Language - Select the language of the comment.
Comments - Enter the comments on the form.
Format comments using the HTML Editor toolbar.
3. Optionally, select the Print with Document check box to indicate that the comments
print on the associated report.
4. Click Save.

Modifying comments
Modify comments on records.
The Work Order Quick Close form does not support modifying HTML formatted
comments.
To modify comments:
1. From any form which supports comments, select the record for which to modify
comments, and then choose one of the following options:
• Using the Comments tab - Click the Comments tab. The system displays the
Comments page. Click the comment to modify. At the bottom of the page, the
system expands the Add/Edit Comments section with HTML Editor Capabilities.
• Using the Add/Edit Comments link - Click Add/Edit Comments. The system
displays the Comments page. Click Expand/Collapse on Add/Edit Comments. At
the bottom of the page, the system expands the Add/Edit Comments section with
HTML Editor Capabilities.
To view or edit comments entered in another language, select the desired
Language. The system displays that language’s Comments. If no comments
were entered for the selected language, the system displays the comments for the
user’s default language.
2. Modify the existing comments as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

14 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Save.

• On the Comments page, the system does not display a link for the original
Created comment afterthe comment is modified. To preserve all comments, do not
delete any previous comment text whenmodifying comments.
• To save a comment, click Save Record.
• To clear a comment, click Clear Comment.
• To delete a comment, click Delete Comment.

Viewing audits for comments
View audits in order to monitor changes in comments.
To view audits for comments:
1. Open any entity form.
2. Select the record for which to view the audit, and then click the Comments tab.
3. Click View Audit Trail.
4. View the audit information.
You can only view audit information if you have established audit control and
changes have been made to the fields under audit. Contact your system administrator
for more information.
Recorded in Mobile indicates when comments are updated or deleted in Mobile. The
date and time reflect updates in Mobile.
5. Click Close.

Managing description translations
Manage description translations for languages. For example, when an asset is created, the
description becomes the record’s description for every language. If the asset’s description is
entered in English, it will appear in English to all users.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

15 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Use the Translations tab to translate the description into specific languages. This feature
only applies to multilingual installations.
When you update a description on the Record View page of any entity record, if that
description has previously been translated, the translation becomes invalid and the
Translated check box is cleared.
1. From any form associated with an entity, select the record you wish to translate, and
then click the Translations tab.
2. Select the description to translate.
3. Specify the translated description for the language.
4. Select the Translated check box to indicate that you have entered a translated
description.
5. Click Submit.

Managing entity associations
Manage specific records on any form associated with an entity.

Associating addresses
Associate mail, invoice, and delivery addresses with records and functions. Enter contact
information such as address, telephone, fax, and e-mail address.
1. From any form associated with an entity, select the record with which to associate or
edit the address, and then click the Addresses tab.
2. Click Add Address.
3. Specify this information:
Address Type - Select one of the following options:
Mail - Select to create a mailing address.
Invoice - Select to create an invoice address.
Delivery - Select to create a delivery address.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

16 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Ship From - Select to create a ship from address.
Telephone - Specify the telephone number to associate with this address.
E-mail Address - Specify the e-mail address to associate with this address.
Full Address - Specify the full address as well as any comments.
4. Click Submit.

Associating parts
Associate parts with records and functions. For example, associate specific parts to an asset,
position, system, or location. You can also modify the quantity of an existing part or remove a
part from the Parts Associated page.
Define parts on the Parts form.
1. From any form associated with an entity, select the record with which to associate parts,
and then click the Parts Associated tab.
2. Click Add Part.
3. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to associate with the record.

• Click Stock Info to view stock information.
• Click Substitutes to view alternate part information.
• Click Suppliers to view supplier information for the part.
• Click Manufacturers to view manufacturer information.
• Click Where Used to view information on where the part is used.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If
the selected part is a condition tracked child part, Condition is automatically
populated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

17 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Quantity - Specify the number of parts to associate with the record. This number
must be greater than zero.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing electronic records and signatures
View electronic records and signatures for entities. Information concerning snapshots and
signatures is stored, including the date and type of the snapshot or signature, name of the
person who signed or updated the record, the type of the signature entered, and the new
status of the record.
1. Open any form requiring electronic signatures for status changes.
2. Select the record for which to view the eRecord, and then click the eRecords tab.
3. View the snapshot and electronic signature information.
You can also print the electronic records directly from the eRecords page. Click
Print All eRecords to print all records in the list for that entity, or click Print Selected
eRecord to print only a specific record for the entity.

Asset Management
The equipment module controls the organization and use of material equipment. Track
equipment and their associated costs by defining them as assets, positions, systems, or
locations; create equipment profiles to use as templates when defining new equipment
records, and place equipment in hierarchical relationships. Define equipment records as
vehicles, linear equipment, and/or VMRS equipment to thoroughly track information pertinent
to each distinct equipment record.
In addition, define meter information, and then associate a logical meter with a piece of
equipment. Meter readings allow you to track equipment usage and more effectively manage
preventive maintenance.
Manage equipment warranties, file claims when necessary, and schedule preventive
maintenance to safeguard against costly equipment failures. Finally, track the value of your
equipment’s depreciation expense.

Understanding equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

18 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Pieces of equipment are entities for which you store data and create work orders. Equipment
can be of many different types, but the four main types are locations, systems, positions, and
assets.

Type

Description

Locations

Physical locations of systems, positions, and assets. For
example, a pumping system is located in Room 104.

Systems

Collections of positions and/or assets that work together so that
when one part goes down, all parts are affected. For example, if
a pump stops working, you must turn off the entire water line to
repair it.

Positions

Functions performed by a general kind of asset. For example,
the pump that moves water from one tank to another is a
functional position, which can be filled by any number of actual,
physical pumps (assets). Positions are also called "functional
positions."

Assets

Generally, physical objects. Assets are the base unit of
equipment information and the smallest tracking unit for capital
investments.

Locations, systems, positions, and assets form a hierarchy of equipment information, with
locations at the top of the hierarchy and assets at the bottom. Data is shared among the
levels of the equipment hierarchy. For example, data for a work order performed on an asset
is also stored in the position, system, and location equipment to which the asset belongs. This
data sharing allows you to track assets and their performance in detail and under differing
conditions, to evaluate the performance of entire systems, and to assess the effect that
locations and positions have on systems and assets.
For example, you might have a pump (PU-9476-96) working in a functional position
(PUMP-03) in a system on the first floor (FLOOR-01). The pump fails, and you remove it from

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

19 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the system to repair it and place another pump (PU-4854-93) in that position. The work order
data for the failed pump is stored not only with the pump equipment (PU-9476-96) but also
with the position equipment (PUMP-03) and the location equipment (FLOOR-01). When the
pump is repaired, you place it in a different functional position (PUMP-02) on the second floor
(FLOOR-02). After the pump is in that position for a while, you can compare the following:
• the performance of PU-9476-96 to the performance of PU-4854-93 in position PUMP-03
in location FLOOR-01 and
• the performance of PU-9476-96 in position PUMP-03 at location FLOOR-01 to its
performance in position PUMP-02 at location FLOOR-02.

Viewing equipment overview 360
View the overview of equipment with widgets that show equipment summary, equipment
health, and nonconformities.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Overview 360.
2. These buttons are available on the overview screen:
Edit Mode - Select this button to open the edit mode for the screen.
Exit Edit Mode - Select this button to close the edit mode for the screen.
Edit Layout - Select this button to edit the layout of the screen. Layout types include
Single Wide, Double Wide, Double Wide - Left Strong, Double Wide - Right Strong, and
Triple Wide.
Add Widget - Select this button to add a widget to the screen. Widget types include
List, KPI, Line Chart, Pie Chart, Stacked Bar Chart, Equipment Summary, Equipment
Health, and Nonconformities.
Select Equipment - Select this button to select the specific equipment to include on the
screen.

Setting up initial equipment information
Set up initial equipment information before using the equipment module.

Setting up equipment categories

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

20 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Categories provide a way to further organize pieces of equipment. For example, if a class is
defined for motors, create a category for motor types and sizes.
If you created custom attributes for equipment classes, those attributes roll down to
the category level and are visible in the Custom Fields section of the Record View page.
To set up equipment categories:
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Categories.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Category - Specify a unique code identifying the category, and then specify a
description of the category in the adjacent field.
4. Specify the Equipment Class and Manufacturer.
5. Click Save Record.

Setting up closing codes
The system contains four types of closing codes: action codes, cause codes, failure codes,
and problem codes. Action codes describe the steps necessary to correct the problem. For
example, a code can specify to add lubricant to a pump. Cause codes identify what caused
the component or type of component to fail, in other words the root cause of the problem.
Failure codes identify the reason the equipment failed. Finally, problem codes identify the
observed equipment failure, such as a leak from a faucet or the overheating of a pump.
To set up closing codes:
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Closing Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Closing Code, Type, and Group.

• The closing code will display in a tree of closing codes in lookups grouped by
selected type.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

21 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• If you specify Symptom for the Type, the Group and Enable for Part Failures are
protected.
4. Select the Out of Service check box to mark the closing code out of service so that the
closing code will not display in lookups.
5. Select the Valid for all Equipment Classes check box to make the closing code
available to associate with any equipment regardless of the class defined for the
equipment. General closing codes apply to general terms.
If classes have been created for the closing code, you cannot select General.
6. Select the Enable for Work Orders check box to display closing codes for work orders.
7. Select the Enable for Part Failures check box to display this closing code for part
failures.
8. Click Save Record.

Associating closing codes with classes
Associate closing codes with classes. For example, equipment with a class of HVAC can
have different closing codes than equipment with a class of MOTOR. A closing code can be
associated with multiple classes.
You cannot associate classes with general closing codes.
To associate closing codes with classes:
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Closing Codes.
2. Select the closing code with which to associate classes, and then click the Classes tab.
3. Click Add Class.
4. Specify the Class to associate with the closing code. The system automatically
populates the class description and Class Org.
5. Click Submit.

Defining closing code hierarchies

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

22 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define parent/child hierarchy details for closing codes.
To define closing code hierarchies:
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Closing Code Hierarchy.
2. Click Add Relationship.
3. Specify the Parent Closing Code, Child Closing Code, and Equipment.
4. Click Submit.

Setting up departments
A department is the center or area that is responsible for the maintenance of equipment, such
as an asset, a position, a system, or a location. The department coordinates the work,
assigns the appropriate crew, plans the work, and approves respective work orders.
When defining equipment, assign it to a department. The department can be modified if
needed on work orders. When creating work orders for maintenance or repairs to equipment,
the system rolls up the associated costs to the department of the work order. Set up a default
store for each department as well as a default supervisor. When reserving parts for a work
order, the system stores them in the specified store.
You cannot delete departments if they have already been used elsewhere in the
system.
To set up departments:
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Departments.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Organization, Department, Class, Default Supervisor, and Default
Store.
4. Specify this information:
Screener - Specify the user responsible for screening work requests for the department.
Account Segment Value - Specify the general ledger account code segment that
represents the department in your accounting structure. See your chart of accounts for

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

23 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

more information.
5. Select the Out of Service check box to indicate the department is no longer in use.
6. Select the Available for CUs check box to indicate that this department is available for
compatible units.
7. Click Save Record.

Associating tools with departments
Associate tools with departments for scheduling purposes. Once you have associated a tool
with a department, the system allows you to schedule the tool on a work order for the
department.
To associate tools with departments:
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Departments.
2. Select the department with which to associate a tool, and then click the Tools tab.
3. Click Add Tool.
4. Specify the Organization and the Department to which the tool belongs.
5. Specify this information:
Quantity - Specify the available quantity of the tool.
Rate - Specify the hourly rate for the tool.
Hours - Specify the number of hours the tool is available.
Currency - The system displays the base currency of the organization
6. Click Submit.

Creating equipment profiles
Create equipment profiles to use as equipment templates. After creating a profile, use it to
quickly create equipment records that require the same information as is contained on the
profile.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

24 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Equipment > Setup > Profiles.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Profile - Specify a unique code identifying the profile, and then provide a description of
the equipment profile in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization to default to equipment records created from
this profile.
Department - Specify the department to default to equipment records created from this
profile.
Status - Specify the status to default to equipment records created from this profile.
4. Select the Out of Service check box if the equipment is not in service.
5. Select the GIS Profile check box to flag the equipment profile as a GIS profile.
Once you create a GIS profile, associate it with a GIS layer. GIS and HxGN
EAM use the GIS profile and layer information to create equipment records in the
respective systems.
For more information on GIS profiles and layers, see the HxGN EAM System
Administrator Guide.
6. Specify any additional information to be included on the equipment to define with this
profile.
7. Click Save Record.

Defining details for risk matrix setup
Define consequence categories, probabilities, and risk levels for the risk matrix.
To define details for risk matrix setup:
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Risk Matrix Setup.
2. Click New Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

25 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Specify the unique Code for the consequence category, probability, or risk level and
then specify a description in the adjacent field.
4. Specify this information:
RCM Project - Specify the project for which you are entering the risk matrix.
Type - Select the type of risk matrix, for example Consequence Category, Probability, or
Risk Level.
Rating/Threshold - Specify the rating/threshold for the risk levels and probabilities. The
risk level determined for equipment or locations is based on this value.
Color - Specify a color for entries in your matrix. For example, specify green for more
desirable probabilities and risks and red for less desirable probabilities and risks. Only
colors assigned to risk levels are used on the Risk Matrix report.
Icon - Specify an icon for entries in your matrix. Icons are displayed on the RCM tab of
the equipment and location screens.
Icon Path - Optionally, you can use your own icons if you select Other in the Icon field.
Icons must start with http:// or https:// or // or \\. Icons should be 16*16 pixels
with preferred GIF, JPEG or PNG format and requiring that file type extension. If the
image is more than 16*16 pixels, EAM will show the top right corner of the image.
Probability % - Specify the percentage that represents the probability. This value will
default on the RCM tab, if this probability is selected.
Black Swan - Select this check box for an event that has a low probability but a very
high cost or consequence.
5. Specify the RCM Project, Type, Rating/Threshold, Color that will be used for risk
levels, and Icon for the probability and risk levels.
6. Click Save Record.

Defining consequences for risk matrix setup
Define consequences for the Risk Matrix.
To define consequences for risk matrix setup:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

26 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Equipment > Setup > Risk Matrix Setup.
2. Select the consequence category for which to add consequences, and then click the
Consequences tab.
3. Click Add Consequence.
4. Specify this information:
Code - Specify a unique code to identify the consequence and then specify a
description of the consequence in the adjacent field. Click Translations to translate the
description text into a different language.
Severity - Specify a value to identify the severity of the consequence.
Icon - Select an icon that will identify the Consequence. If Other is selected for Icon,
select the Icon Path.
5. Click Submit.

Defining consequence costs for risk matrix setup
Define the monetary cost associated to any defined consequences for any of the defined
consequence categories of the risk matrix.
Consequences can also be identified as black swans. Black swans are unlikely events that
have huge costs. Multiplying the low probability with the high cost may obscure this high cost
danger. For example, a 1% chance of a $100,000 cost results in a loss of $1,000. However, a
50% chance of a $2,000 cost event also has a result of $1,000.
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Risk Matrix Setup.
2. Select the risk matrix for which to define consequence costs, and then click the
Consequence Costs tab.
3. Specify this information:
Consequence - Specify the consequence for which to define costs.
Organization - Specify the organization for the consequence cost.
Consequence Cost - Specify the monetary value of the consequence cost.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

27 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Black Swan - Select this check box if the consequence cost is a black swan. A black
swan is an unlikely event that can have a very large cost.
4. Click Submit.

Defining equipment
Define your organization’s assets, positions, systems, and locations as equipment.
You can only delete equipment records that do not have histories or other associated
records.
If you have purchased the GIS integration, automatically define Esri GIS features as you
define HxGN EAM assets, positions, or systems. In addition, view equipment on a GIS map
from the Assets, Positions, or Systems forms.
As you define an equipment record, specify that it is subject to the United States Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) Current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) standards as
necessary. Depending on your system configuration, the system creates electronic records or
requires signatures for any work performed on cGMP equipment. Contact your system
administrator for more information.
Create a large number of identical equipment records quickly with equipment profiles.
Define linear equipment records for equipment that spans a length of space, for example a
bridge. Define Vehicle Maintenance Reporting System (VMRS) equipment as necessary.
Define equipment before associating parts or permits with that equipment or before setting up
parent/child relationships.
When the selected equipment is dependent on a parent, the equipment inherits its
location from that parent. Equipment cannot be dependent on more than one parent.
When equipment is directly associated with a location, the relationship is automatically a
dependent one.
Multiple system parents can exist for assets, positions, and systems. Therefore, this
relationship cannot be established or maintained on the Record View pages of these forms.
Because equipment records are central to all functionality, the system allows you to perform a
number of functions directly from the Assets, Positions, or Systems forms. Right-click to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

28 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

access the functionality. See the following table, which displays the functionality available
from the Assets, Positions, and Systems forms and directs you to the section and section
within this guide that provides instructions for use:

Right-click option

See this topic

Create GIS Feature

Defining GIS features in EAM

View GIS Map

Viewing GIS maps from equipment
records

View GIS Attributes

Identifying features in EAM

Create WO

Defining regular work order headers
and Defining regular work order
activities

Transfer Equipment

Transferring equipment between
organizations

Linear Equipment Search

Searching for references

Calculate Reliability Ranking Values

Creating equipment rankings

Create Nonconformity

Defining nonconformities

Defining assets
Define your organization’s assets as equipment.
The installation parameter ASSETASS determines whether assets are recognized at

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

29 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

purchase order creation or upon receipt.
1. Select Equipment > Assets.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Organization, Department, Type, and Operational Status.
Equipment cannot be made operational if regulatory items exist with repairs
needed. The checklist items for the equipment must have a resolution of Repair
Completed or Temporary Repair with a Follow-up WO-Activity or Deferred Maintenance.
4. Specify this information:
Asset - Specify a unique code identifying the asset, and then specify a description of
the asset in the adjacent field.
If the AUTOANUM installation parameter is set to YES, the asset number is
automatically assigned if the Asset code is not specified.
Loaned to Department - Specify the department to which the asset is loaned.
PM WO Department - Specify the department responsible for the PM work order.
If the Department for the PM Schedules and Maintenance patterns work orders
are blank, the PM WO Department is used to generate works orders. Otherwise, the
Department is used.
Status - Select the status of the asset. The default status values include these options:
If your options vary from these default options, your system administrator may
have created or modified your organization's status options. Contact your system
administrator for more information.

System Code

Option

Description

*

Any code

This is a system
status that is not available for
selection by users

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

30 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

A

Awaiting purchase Interacts with the purchasing
module. If assets are
recognized at purchase order
creation, then an asset must
be created at time of purchase
order generation. The
ASSETASS installation
parameter determines when
assets are recognized: at
receipt (R) or at purchase
order creation (P).

B

Purchased/in
store

This is a system
status that is not available for
selection by users.

C

In store

Reserved for new assets
received into a firm's store.
Select the Status value in
store only when defining an
asset in the inventory store.

CIR

In repair

This is a system
status that is not available for
selection by users.
Receive or scrap the part
tracked by asset on an internal
repair receipt or a PO receipt
to prompt a status change.

CRR

To be repaired

This is a system
status that is not available for
selection by users.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

31 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If the asset has no parents,
status is editable but can only
change to another status of
CRR or Installed (I).

D

Withdrawn

Assigned when an asset is no
longer available for use. This
status is not available during
initial asset creation.
Withdrawal Date is
automatically populated.

I

Installed

Assigned when an asset is in
place and operating within the
business organization.

T

In transit

This is a system
status that is not available for
selection by users.

5. Specify the Class, Category, Cost Code, Profile, System Level, Assembly Level,
Component Level, Commission Date, Equipment Value, Withdrawal Date,
Sold/Scrap Date, Original Receipt Date, Latest Receipt Date, Original Install Date,
and Latest Install Date.
6. Specify this information:
Production - Select this check box if the asset is used in production.
Safety - Select this check box to observe safety precautions when working with this
asset.
Out of Service - Select this check box if the asset is not used.
Prevent WO Completion - Select this check box to indicate that work orders for this
asset should not be closed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

32 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Current Workspace - Optionally, specify the current workspace of the asset.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the asset.
Meter Unit - Specify the asset’s primary unit of measure.
Criticality - Specify a criticality code to indicate the relative importance of the asset to
the overall production of goods or services for your organization.
Criticality proceeds to work orders when the asset requires maintenance.
State - Select the state of the asset.
If you select CN pending, CN In Process, or CN Completed, a value for
Change Notice must be specified. If you select Good or Defective, Change Notice is
cleared.
Change Notice - Specify the change notice for the asset.
If you specify or change the value for Change Notice, State is changed to CN
Pending if State is not populated. If you clear Change Notice, the State changes to
Good.
cGMP - Select this check box to indicate that the equipment is subject to cGMP
standards.
Dormant Start - Specify the date on which the dormant period for any PM work orders
for the equipment begins.
Dormant End - Specify the date on which the dormant period for any PM work orders
for the equipment ends.
Reuse Dormant Period - Select this check box to use the same specified dormant
period for any PM work orders for the equipment on an annual basis.
Track Resources - Select this check box to track the resources directly related to this
equipment.
Temperature Monitored - Select this check box if the equipment has temperature
monitoring capabilities.
Set - Specify a set with which to associate the asset.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

33 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Set Position - Specify the position of the set.
Documoto Book ID - Specify a specific Documoto Book with which to associate the
asset.
Driver - Specify the driver associated with the asset if it is a vehicle.
Driver Phone Number - Specify the phone number of the driver associated with the
asset.
Accessible - Select this check box if the vehicle is handicap accessible.
Non-Smoking - Select this check box if the vehicle is a non-smoking vehicle.
7. Select the Vehicle check box if the asset is a vehicle. If selected, you can associate
qualifications on the Qualifications tab for equipment.
8. Specify the Fleet Customer, Billing Code, and Markup Code.

• If a Billing Code or a Markup Code are associated directly to the asset, the
ticketing process will always assign these codes to the ticket, regardless of the
Billing Codes associated with the fleet customer on the Billing Codes form.
• The Fleet Customer, Cost Code, Vehicle Status, and Issued To values should
be controlled primarily through the ticketing process for vehicles. The Vehicle
Status must be Available to be issued through ticket.
9. Optionally, specify this vehicle information:
Vehicle Status - Specify the status of the vehicle.
Vehicle Type - Specify the vehicle type.
Reservable Equipment - Select this check box if the asset can be reserved.
Rental Template - Specify the template used for the rental reservation.
Contract Equipment - Select the check box if the asset is contract equipment.
Contract Template - Specify the template used for the contract.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

34 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Customer - Specify the rental customer.
Availability Status - Specify the availability of the asset.
Issued To - Specify to whom the asset is issued.
Reservation Calendar Owners List - Specify the approval list for the Reservation
Calendar Owner.
Reservation Calendar Owner - Specify the reservation calendar owner who can edit
equipment reservations.
10. Specify the Manufacturer, Serial Number, Model, and Revision.
11. Optionally, specify the Hardware Version, Software Version, Purchasing Asset ID,
Biomedical Asset ID, UMDNS Code, OEM Site / System ID, Vendor, and Coverage
Type.
12. Specify the Part, Store, Bin, and Lot.
Only specify parts that are tracked by asset. You can specify a Store and Bin
only if the equipment’s Status is Awaiting purchase or In store.
13. Specify the Calendar Group, Penalty Factor, and Minimum Penalty.
14. Select the Service Delivery Matrix check box to restrict work orders for this equipment
to a pre-defined service delivery matrix.
Service Delivery Matrix must be selected for Service Problem Code
Validation on the Call Center Setup tab.
15. Specify the Parent Asset, and then select the Dependent check box if the asset
depends on the parent asset. Then select the Cost Roll-up check box if the costs
should roll up to the parent asset.
16. Specify the Primary System, and then select the Dependent check box if the asset
depends on the primary system. Then select the Cost Roll-up check box if the costs
should roll up to the primary system.
17. Specify the Position, and then select the Dependent check box if the asset is depends
on the position. Then select the Cost Roll-up if the costs should roll up to the position.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

35 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

18. Specify the Location, Equipment Length, Equip. Length UOM, Linear Ref. UOM,
Ref. Precision, Geographical Ref., Inspection Direction, and Flow.
The Equipment Length Override check box is automatically selected if the
specified Equipment Length is different than the length calculated based on the From
Point and To Point.
19. Specify this information:
Lockout / Tagout - Select this check box if the equipment complies with OSHA
regulations on lockout/tagout procedures. This regulation ensures machines are
properly shut down and that they do not start again until service or maintenance on the
machine is completed.
Personal Protective Equipment - Select this check box if OSHA requires the use of
personal protective equipment when operating the equipment to reduce exposure to
hazards or injury.
Confined Space - Select this check box if the equipment is located in an area defined
as a confined space as per OSHA regulations.
Statement of Conditions - Select this check box to indicate the system relates to the
Statement of Conditions as required by The Joint Commission.
Building Maintenance Program - Select this check box to indicate the system
equipment is inventoried in the building maintenance program.
HIPAA Confidentiality - Select this check box to indicate the system equipment
contains confidential patient health information and the equipment must comply with
regulations.
20. Specify this information:
The values of the FCI details should be specified based on the planning budget
and investment figures from a third party audit.
Cost of Needed Repairs - Specify the cost of necessary repairs. The system
automatically populates the currency, and defaults Eligible for Energy Star Label to
unselected.
Replacement Value - Specify the current replacement value for the equipment. The

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

36 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system automatically populates the currency.
Facility Condition Index - Specify the resultant FCI based on the maintenance details.
Cost of Needed Repairs/Current Replacement Value=FCI
Floor Area - Specify the floor area, and then specify the unit of measure for the floor
area.
Track Utility Bills - Select this check box to mark the asset as having capabilities to
record utility bills.
Track Gas - Select this check box to set the equipment as GAS (Global Asset
Sustainability) Tracked.
If data exists on the Design Consumption or Actual Consumption tabs, the
equipment must remain as GAS Tracked.
21. Specify the Estimated Revenue, Region, Primary Use, Year Built, and Service Life
(years).
22. Specify the Ownership Type, Inventory Verification Date, Equipment Value,
Purchase Order #, Purchase Date, Purchase Cost, and Disposal Type.
23. Select the Lock Reliability Ranking Values check box to lock the reliability ranking
values for the equipment on the Ranking Survey tab of the Equipment screen.
If Lock Reliability Ranking Values is selected, the user is not allowed to
modify the reliability survey answers and calculate reliability ranking values for the
equipment. The selection of the equipment for update on the Batch Update Equipment
Ranking Values tab is also prevented.
24. Specify this information:
Reliability Ranking - Specify the reliability ranking code for the equipment. The system
automatically populates Reliability Ranking Index, Reliability Ranking Score,
Reliability Ranking Values Out of Sync, Reliability Ranking Values Last
Calculated, Reliability Survey Last Updated, and Reliability Ranking Setup Last
Updated, after answering the reliability survey.
Correction Condition Score - Specify the correction to the condition score.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

37 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Correction Reason - Specify the reason for the correction of the condition score.
Correction Date - Specify the date at which the correction of the condition score takes
effect.
Correction Usage - Specify the usage at which the correction of the condition score
takes effect. This field is required if the Correction Condition Score and Meter Unit fields
are not blank.
Service Life Usage - Specify the service life of the equipment based on its usage.
25. Specify this information:
Target Power Factor - Specify the target power factor that has been determined for the
asset.
Target Peak Demand (W) - Specify the target peak demand in watts for the asset.
Start Billing Period - Specify the date that the billing period begins. The Peak Demand
measurements are relevant after this date.
The Peak Demand alert updates this field based on the specified Bill Every,
but manual changes may be required depending on the actual utility invoices received.
Bill Every - Specify the length of the interval of time to pass before the next bill is
expected. Then select the unit of measure in the adjacent field.
Eff. Loss 1% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 1 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 2% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 2 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 3% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 3 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 4% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 4 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 5% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 5 percent imbalance.
Performance Manager - Specify the energy performance manager who is responsible
for the equipment.
Electric Sub-meter Interval - Specify the length of the interval of time in minutes
indicating how frequently the electric sub-meter is read.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

38 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Electric Usage Threshold - Specify the current in amps above which the equipment is
considered running or on.
26. Click Save Record.

• If a review is performed on the Safety tab, Safety Date Review Required and Safety
Reviewed By are automatically populated.
• If a review is performed on the Permits tab, Permit Date Review Required and Permit
Reviewed By are automatically populated.
• If a review is performed on the LOTO tab, LOTO Date Review Required and LOTO
Reviewed By are automatically populated.

Defining positions
Define your organization’s functional positions as equipment.
1. Select Equipment > Positions.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the position belongs if you use multiorganization security. The system automatically populates Transfer Date and Org.
Position - Specify a unique code identifying the position, and then specify a description
of the position in the adjacent field.
If the AUTOANUM installation parameter is set to YES, the system
automatically assigns the position number if the Position code is not specified.
Department - Specify the position’s department. The system automatically populates
GIS ID, Layer, Location X, Location Y, Map, and Map Org.
Type - Specify the equipment type.
Operational Status - Specify the operational status of the position.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

39 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment cannot be made operational if regulatory items exist with repairs
needed. The checklist items for the equipment must have a resolution of Repair
Completed or Temporary Repair with a Follow-up WO-Activity or Deferred Maintenance.
Loaned to Department - Specify the department to which the\ position has been
loaned.
PM WO Department - Specify the department responsible for the PM work order.
If the Department for the PM Schedules and Maintenance patterns work orders
are blank, the PM WO Department will be used to generate works orders. Otherwise,
the Department will be used.
Status - The system defaults Status to Installed. This value cannot be changed.
4. Specify the Class, Category, and Cost Code for the position.
If you specify a category for which calibration data has been defined, the
system copies the calibration and test point data to the position.
5. Specify this information:
Production - Select this check box if the position is used in production.
Safety - Select this check box to observe safety precautions when working with this
position.
Profile - Specify the profile on which to base this equipment record.
Out of Service - Select this check box if the position is not used.
Prevent WO Completion - Select this check box to indicate that work orders for this
position should not be closed.
Current Workspace - Optionally, specify the current workspace of the position.
6. Specify the EMRS codes for the System Level, Assembly Level, and Component
Level.
7. Specify this information:
Commission Date - Specify the installation date for the position.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

40 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The Commission Date defaults to the current date when you create a position.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the position.
Meter Unit - Specify the position’s primary unit of measure.
Criticality - Specify a criticality code to indicate the relative importance of the position to
the overall production of goods or services for your organization.
cGMP - Select this check box to indicate that the equipment is subject to cGMP
standards.
Sold/Scrap Date - Specify the date on which the asset is sold or scrapped.
Dormant Start - Specify the date on which the dormant period for any PM work orders
for the equipment begins.
Dormant End - Specify the date on which the dormant period for any PM work orders
for the equipment ends.
Reuse Dormant Period - Select this check box to use the same specified dormant
period for any PM work orders for the equipment on an annual basis.
Track Resources - Select this check box to track the resources directly related to this
position.
Set - Specify a set with which to associate the position.
Set Position - Specify the position of the set.
8. Specify the Original Receipt Date, Latest Receipt Date, Original Install Date, and
Latest Install Date.
9. Optionally, specify this information:
Checklist Filter - Select the checklist filter.
Size for Tolerance - Specify the size tolerance for the position.
Temperature Monitored - Select this check box if the equipment has temperature
monitoring capabilities.
10. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

41 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Documoto Book ID - Specify a specific Documoto Book with which to associate the
position.
Manufacturer - Specify the manufacturer of the position.
Serial Number - Specify the serial number of the position.
Model - Specify the model of the position.
Revision - Specify the revision of the position.
11. Optionally, specify the Hardware Version, Software Version, Purchasing Asset ID,
Biomedical Asset ID, UMDNS Code, OEM Site/System ID, Vendor, and Coverage
Type.
12. Specify this information:
Variable 1, Variable 2, Variable 3, Variable 4, Variable 5, Variable 6 - Specify the
variables of the position.
Calendar Group - Specify the calendar group for the position. The system automatically
populates Calendar Group Org.
Penalty Factor - Specify the penalty factor for the position.
Minimum Deduction/Currency - Specify the minimum deduction allowed.
Asset - Specify the asset for the position.
Dependent - Select the check box if the position is dependent upon the Asset.
Cost Roll-up - Select the check box if costs should roll up to the Asset.
Location - Specify the location of the position.
Parent Position - Specify the parent position.
Dependent - Specify if the position is dependent upon the Parent Position.
Cost Roll-up - Select this check box if costs should roll up to the Parent Position.
13. Specify the Equipment Length, Equip. Length UOM, Linear Ref. UOM, Ref.
Precision, Geographical Ref., Inspection Direction, and Flow.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

42 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The Equipment Length Override check box will be selected if the specified
Equipment Length is different than the length calculated based on the From Point and
To Point.
14. Specify this information:
The values of the FCI details should be specified based on the planning budget
and investment figures from a third party audit.
Cost of Needed Repairs - Specify the cost of necessary repairs. The system
automatically populates the currency.
Replacement Value - Specify the current replacement value for the equipment. The
system automatically populates the currency.
Facility Condition Index - Specify the resultant FCI based on the maintenance details.
Cost of Needed Repairs/Current Replacement Value equals FCI.
Utility Bill Level - Select this check box to mark the asset as having capabilities to
record utility bills.
GAS Tracked - Select this check box to set the equipment as GAS (Global Asset
Sustainability) Tracked.
If data exists on the Design Consumption or Actual Consumption forms, the
equipment must remain as GAS Tracked.
Facility - Select this check box to add the facility record in the ENX Suite list of facilities.
Facility is available for Oracle installations only.
Floor Area - Specify the floor area, and then specify the unit of measure for the floor
area.
Estimated Revenue - Specify the estimated revenue the piece of equipment can
generate.
Region - Specify the region for the equipment. The system automatically populates
Region Org.
Country - Specify the country.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

43 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Country is available for Oracle installations only.
Primary Use - Specify the primary use for the equipment.
Year Built - Specify the year built for the equipment.
Service Life (years) - Specify the service life of the equipment.
Lock Reliability Ranking Values - Select the check box to lock the reliability ranking
values for the equipment on the Ranking Survey tab of the Equipment screen.
If Lock Reliability Ranking Values is selected, the system will not allow the
user to modify the reliability survey answers and calculate reliability ranking values for
the equipment. The system also prevents the selection of equipment for update on the
Batch Update Equipment Ranking Values form.
Reliability Ranking - Specify the reliability ranking code for the equipment. The system
automatically populates Reliability Ranking Index, Reliability Ranking Score,
Reliability Ranking Values Out of Sync, Reliability Ranking Values Last
Calculated, Reliability Survey Last Updated, and Reliability Ranking Setup Last
Updated, after answering the reliability survey.
Correction Condition Score - Specify the correction to the condition score.
Correction Reason - Specify the reason for the correction of the condition score.
Correction Date - Specify the date at which the correction of the condition score takes
effect.
Correction Usage - Specify the usage at which the correction of the condition score
takes effect. This field is required if the Correction Condition Score and Meter Unit
fields are not blank.
Service Life Usage - Specify the service life of the equipment based on its usage.
15. Specify this information:
Vehicle Type - Specify the vehicle type.
Reservable Equipment - Select this check box if the position can be reserved.
Contract Equipment - Select this check box if the position is contract equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

44 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Contract Template - Specify the template used for the contract.
Customer - Specify the rental customer.
Availability Status - Specify the availability of the position.
Issued To - Specify to whom the position is issued.
Reservation Calendar Owners List - Specify the approval list for the Reservation
Calendar Owner.
Reservation Calendar Owner - Specify the reservation calendar owner who can edit
equipment reservations.
Rental Template - Specify the template used for the rental reservation.
Target Power Factor - Specify the target power factor that has been determined for the
asset.
Target Peak Demand (W) - Specify the target peak demand in watts for the asset.
Start Billing Period - Specify the date that the billing period begins. The Peak Demand
measurements are relevant after this date.
The Peak Demand alert will update this field based on the specified Bill Every,
but manual changes may be required depending on the actual utility invoices received.
Bill Every - Specify the length of the interval of time to pass before the system expects
the next bill, and then select the unit of measure in the adjacent field.
Eff. Loss 1% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 1 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 2% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 2 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 3% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 3 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 4% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 4 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 5% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 5 percent imbalance.
Performance Manager - Specify the energy performance manager who is responsible
for the equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

45 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Electric Sub-meter Interval - Specify the length of the interval of time in minutes
indicating how frequently the electric sub-meter is read.
Electric Usage Threshold - Specify the current in amps above which the equipment is
considered running or on.
16. Optionally, specify this information:
Lockout/Tagout - Select this check box if the system equipment complies with OSHA
regulations on lockout/tagout procedures. This regulation ensures machines are
properly shut down and that they do not start again until service or maintenance on the
machine is completed.
Personal Protective Equipment - Select this check box if OSHA requires the use of
personal protective equipment when operating the equipment to reduce exposure to
hazards or injury.
Confined Space - Select this check box if the equipment is located in an area defined
as a confined space as per OSHA regulations.
Statement of Conditions - Select this check box to indicate the system relates to the
Statement of Conditions as required by The Joint Commission.
Building Maintenance Program - Select this check box to indicate the system
equipment is inventoried in the building maintenance program.
HIPAA Confidentiality - Select this check box to indicate the equipment contains
confidential patient health information and the equipment must comply with regulations.
17. Specify the Ownership Type, Inventory Verification Date, Equipment Value,
Purchase Order #, Purchase Date, Purchase Cost, and Disposal Type.
18. Click Save Record.

• The system automatically populates Equipment Configuration, Equipment
Configuration Org., and Equipment Configuration Revision.
• If a review has been performed on the Safety tab, the system automatically populates
Safety Date Review Required and Safety Reviewed By.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

46 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• If a review has been performed on the Permits tab, the system automatically populates
Permit Date Review Required and Permit Reviewed By.
• If a review has been performed on the LOTO tab, the system automatically populates
LOTO Date Review Required and LOTO Reviewed By.
• Click Linear Equipment Search to locate linear equipment for the selected position.

Defining systems
Define your organization’s systems as equipment.
To define systems:
1. Select Equipment > Systems.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Organization, System and a description, Department, Type, and
Operational Status.
Equipment cannot be made operational if regulatory items exist with repairs
needed. The checklist items for the equipment must have a resolution of Repair
Completed or Temporary Repair with a Follow-up WO-Activity or Deferred Maintenance.
4. Specify this information:
Loaned to Department - Specify the department to which the system has been loaned.
PM WO Department - Specify the department responsible for the PM work order.
If the Department for the PM Schedules and Maintenance patterns work orders
are blank, the PM WO Department will be used to generate works orders. Otherwise,
the Department will be used.
Status - The system defaults the Status to Installed, and this value cannot be changed.
Specify the Equipment Details.
5. Specify the Class, Category, Cost Code, Profile, System Level, Assembly Level,
and Component Level.
If you specify a category for which calibration data has been defined, the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

47 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system copies the calibration and test point data to the system.
6. Specify this information:
Production - Select this check box if the system is used in production.
Safety - Select this check box to observe safety precautions when working with this
system.
Out of Service - Select this check box if the system is not used.
Prevent WO Completion - Select this check box to indicate that work orders for this
system should not be closed.
Current Workspace - Optionally, specify the current workspace of the system.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the system.
Meter Unit - Specify the system’s primary unit of measure.
Criticality - Select a criticality code to indicate the relative importance of the system to
the overall production of goods or services for your organization.
Dormant Start - Specify the date on which the dormant period for any PM work orders
for the equipment begins.
Dormant End - Specify the date on which the dormant period for any PM work orders
for the equipment ends.
Reuse Dormant Period - Select to use the same specified dormant period for any PM
work orders for the equipment on an annual basis.
cGMP - Select this check box to indicate that the equipment is subject to cGMP
standards.
Sold/Scrap Date - Specify the date on which the asset is sold or scrapped. Specify the
following Tracking Details:
Documoto Book ID - Specify a specific Documoto Book with which to associate the
part.
Track Resources - Select this check box to track the resources directly related to this
equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

48 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Set - Specify a set of equipment to associate with the system.
Set Position - Specify the position of the set of equipment.
7. Specify the Original Receipt Date, Latest Receipt Date, Original Install date, and
Latest Install Date.
8. Optionally, specify this information:
Checklist Filter - Select the checklist filter.
Size for Tolerance - Specify the size tolerance for the system.
Temperature Monitored - Select this check box if the equipment has temperature
monitoring capabilities.
9. Specify the Manufacturer, Serial Number, Model, and Revision.
10. Optionally, specify the Hardware Version, Software Version, Purchasing Asset ID,
Biomedical Asset ID, UMDNS Code, OEM Site / System ID, Vendor, and Coverage
Type.
11. Specify the variables of the system.
12. Specify the Calendar Group, Minimum Penalty, and Penalty Factor.
13. Select the Service Delivery Matrix check box to restrict work orders for this equipment
to a pre-defined service delivery matrix.
14. Specify the Location and RCM Level.
15. Specify the Equipment Length, Equip. Length UOM, Linear Ref. UOM, Ref.
Precision, Geographical Ref., Inspection Direction, Linear Cost Weight, and Flow.
The Equipment Length Override check box will be selected if the specified
Equipment Length is different than the length calculated based on the From Point and
To Point.
16. Specify the Cost of Needed Repairs, Replacement Value, Estimated Revenue,
Region, Primary Use, Year Built, and Service Life (years).
The values of the FCI details should be specified based on the planning budget
and investment figures from a third party audit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

49 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

17. Specify this information:
Facility Condition Index - Specify the resultant FCI based on the maintenance details.
Cost of Needed Repairs/Current Replacement Value=FCI
Floor Area - Specify the floor area, and then specify the unit of measure for the floor
area.
18. Select the Utility Bill Level check box to mark the asset as having capabilities to record
utility bills.
19. Select the Gas Tracked check box to set the equipment as GAS (Global Asset
Sustainability) Tracked.
If data exists on the Design Consumption or Actual Consumption tabs, the
equipment must remain as GAS Tracked.
20. Specify the Lock Reliability Ranking Values to lock the reliability ranking values for
the equipment on the Ranking Survey tab of the Equipment screen.
If Lock Reliability Ranking Values is selected, the system will not allow the
user to modify the reliability survey answers and calculate reliability ranking values for
the equipment. The system also prevents the selection of equipment for update on the
Batch Update Equipment Ranking Values form.
21. Specify this information:
Reliability Ranking - Specify the reliability ranking code for the equipment. The system
automatically populates Reliability Ranking Index, Reliability Ranking Score,
Reliability Ranking Values Out of Sync, Reliability Ranking Values Last
Calculated, Reliability Survey Last Updated, and Reliability Ranking Setup Last
Updated, after answering the reliability survey.
Correction Condition Score - Specify the correction to the condition score.
Correction Reason - Specify the reason for the correction of the condition score.
Correction Date - Specify the date at which the correction of the condition score takes
effect.
Correction Usage - Specify the usage at which the correction of the condition score

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

50 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

takes effect. This field is required if the Correction Condition Score and Meter Unit
fields are not blank.
Service Life Usage - Specify the service life of the equipment based on its usage.
22. Specify this information:
Vehicle Type - Specify the vehicle type.
Vehicle Status - Specify the status of the vehicle.
Rental Template - Specify the template used for the rental reservation.
Contract Equipment - Select the check box if the asset is contract equipment.
Contract Template - Specify the template used for the contract.
Customer - Specify the rental customer.
Availability Status - Specify the availability of the system.
Issued To - Specify to whom the system is issued.
Reservation Calendar Owners List - Specify the approval list for the Reservation
Calendar Owner.
Reservation Calendar Owner - Specify the reservation calendar owner who can edit
equipment reservations.
Reservable Equipment - Select this check box if the system can be reserved.
23. Optionally, specify this information:
Lockout/Tagout - Select this check box if the system equipment complies with OSHA
regulations on lockout/tagout procedures. This regulation ensures machines are
properly shut down and that they do not start again until service or maintenance on the
machine is completed.
Personal Protective Equipment - Select this check box if OSHA requires the use of
personal protective equipment when operating the equipment to reduce exposure to
hazards or injury.
Confined Space - Select this check box if the equipment is located in an area defined

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

51 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

as a confined space as per OSHA regulations.
Statement of Conditions - Select this check box to indicate the system relates to the
Statement of Conditions as required by The Joint Commission.
Building Maintenance Program - Select this check box to indicate the system
equipment is inventoried in the building maintenance program.
HIPAA Confidentiality - Select this check box to indicate the system equipment
contains confidential patient health information and the equipment must comply with
regulations.
24. Specify the Ownership Type, Inventory Verification Date, Equipment Value,
Purchase Order #, Purchase Date, Purchase Cost, and Disposal Type.
25. Click Save Record.

• Equipment Configuration, Equipment Configuration Org., and Equipment
Configuration Revision are automatically populated.
• If a review has been performed on the Safety tab, the system automatically
populates Safety Date Review Required and Safety Reviewed By. If a review has
been performed on the Permits tab, the system automatically populates Permit
Date Review Required and Permit Reviewed By.
• If a review has been performed on the LOTO tab, the system automatically
populates LOTO Date Review Required and LOTO Reviewed By.

Defining locations
Locations are the top level of the equipment hierarchy and, like other equipment, can have
parents and children with many sublevels. For example, a facility can be a parent to children
such as wings, floors, and levels.
Locations can also mean two different things. One location can tell you a piece of equipment’s
physical location, such as the pump in Boiler Room 2. Another location can be equipment
itself such as Boiler Room 2. Keep in mind that equipment keeps its location until it is move.
In other words, it can only be in one place at one time.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

52 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Set up parent locations before setting up child locations. You cannot delete parent
locations if child locations exist.
To define locations:
1. Select Equipment > Locations.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the location belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Location - Specify a unique code identifying the location, and then specify a description
of the location in the adjacent field.
Calendar Group - Specify the calendar group for the location. The system automatically
populates Calendar Group Org.
4. Specify the Department, Class, Cost Code, Penalty Factor, Minimum
Deduction/Currency, and Parent Location.
5. Specify this information:
Safety - Select this check box to observe safety precautions when working at this
location.
Out of Service - Select this check box if the location is not used.
Reservation Calendar Owners List - Specify the approval list for the Reservation
Calendar Owner.
Reservation Calendar Owner - Specify the reservation calendar owner who can edit
equipment reservations.
Current Workspace - Optionally, specify the current workspace of the location.
cGMP - Select this check box to indicate that the equipment is subject to cGMP
standards.
6. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

53 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• If a review has been performed on the Safety tab, the system automatically
populates Safety Date Review Required and Safety Reviewed By.
• If a review has been performed on the Permits tab, the system automatically
populates Permit Date Review Required and Permit Reviewed By.
• If a review has been performed on the LOTO tab, the system automatically
populates LOTO Date Review Required and LOTO Reviewed By.

Defining linear equipment
Linear equipment occupies a length of space such as an interstate or bridge. Create work
orders for specific points or segments of linear equipment records, allowing you to track work
orders, costs, and events along the equipment.
After you define a linear equipment record, add linear references.
You can edit Equipment Length or Equip. Length UOM for an existing equipment
record as long as there are no linear references that fall outside of the newly specified length
in the Linear Ref. UOM.
If you edit the length of a linear equipment record, the associated PM records may be
automatically edited when installation parameter PMRVCTRL is set to No. If the new
equipment length falls on or within the length of the PM, the To Point of the PM record is
automatically updated based on the new equipment length. If the new equipment length falls
outside of the length of the PM, the PM record is not updated.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the information necessary to define the piece of equipment.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

54 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment Length - Specify the length of the equipment.
Equip. Length UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the Equipment Length.
Linear Ref. UOM - Specify the unit of measure for linear references. The from and to
point unit of measure for work orders are defaulted based on the Linear Ref. UOM.
Linear references can have a different UOM than the Equipment Length. For example,
if the system is integrated with ESRI’s GIS, the equipment’s map units may be in feet,
but linear references like mile posts may be defined in miles.
Ref. Precision - Specify the number of decimal places to include in linear reference
measurements.
If you do not specify a Reference Precision, the precision is automatically
defaulted to 0.
Geographical Ref. - Specify a geographical reference for the equipment.
Inspection Direction - Specify the typical direction in which an equipment inspection is
performed.
Flow - Specify the typical direction in which the process flows. For example, you can
specify the traffic direction of a street or the direction in which oil flows through a pipe.
Linear Cost Weight - Specify a number for the weighted cost of the equipment. This
weight attribute determines the percentage of the work order costs the equipment is
assigned when costs roll up from the child to the parent. For example, a railway asset in
a city is shared by two different rail lines, and the maintenance costs of the railway asset
must be applied to both lines. Without the weight attribute, all costs would be rolled up
to both lines. If you want to split the costs evenly over both lines, you can enter a weight
of 1 for both lines.
5. Click Save Record.

Defining EMRS equipment
Define equipment records as EMRS equipment as you specify the equipment information on
the Assets, Positions, or Systems pages. Before you can define EMRS equipment, you
must define EMRS codes.
See Defining EMRS codes.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

55 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Once you define EMRS equipment records, track work orders and warranties associated to
the piece of equipment based on the specified EMRS codes.
See Associating VMRS codes with warranties.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the information necessary to define the piece of equipment.
4. Specify the System Level, Assembly Level, and Component Level.
EMRS Description is populated based on the System Level, Assembly Level, and
Component Level combination.
You cannot specify a Component Level unless you specified an Assembly
Level.
5. Click Save Record.

Defining equipment using profiles
Before defining equipment records using profiles, create profiles. See Creating equipment
profiles.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the information necessary to define the piece of equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

56 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Profile - Specify the profile.
The description, Department, Class, Category, Equipment Value, Meter Unit,
Manufacturer, Model, Revision, Part, Variable 1 through Variable 6, and any custom
fields are automatically populated on the Record View page.
Part and its description, Part Org.,Quantity and its unit of measure, and Comments
are automatically populated on the Parts Associated page of the record.
5. Click Save Record.

Defining healthcare assets
Define your organization's healthcare equipment as assets. Assets and properties work
together to create a system. When assets and properties are linked to define a system then
the entire system is affected by actions or movements of one individual piece. For example, if
one piece of equipment breaks down, the entire system must be taken offline.
1. Select Equipment > Assets Healthcare.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Organization and a description, Asset and a description, Department,
Operational Status, and Type.
4. Specify this information:
Loaned to Department - Specify the department to which the asset has been loaned.
PM WO Department - Specify the department responsible for the PM work order if
different than Department.
If the Department for the PM Schedules and Maintenance patterns work orders
are blank, the PM WO Department will be used to generate works orders. Otherwise,
the Department will be used.
Status - Specify the system status. The default status values include:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

57 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Option

Description

Awaiting purchase

Interacts with the purchasing module. If assets are
recognized at purchase order creations, then an
asset must be created at time of purchase order
generation. The ASSETASS installation parameter
determines when assets are recognized: at receipt
(R) or at purchase order creation (P).

In store

Reserved for new assets received into a firm's store.
Select the Status value In store only when defining
an asset in the inventory store.

Installed

Assigned when an asset is in place and operating
within the business organization.

Withdrawn

Assigned when an asset is no longer available for
use. This status is not available during initial asset
creation. Withdrawal Date is automatically
populated.

Criticality Code - Specify a criticality code to indicate the relative importance of the
equipment to the overall production of goods or services for your system.
Meter Unit - Specify the asset’s primary unit of measure.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the asset.
Safety - Select this check box to observe safety precautions when working with this
equipment.
Temperature Monitored - Select this check box if it is necessary or required to monitor
the equipment's temperature.
Out of Service - Select this check box if the asset is not used. Withdrawal Date is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

58 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

automatically populated.
Current Workspace - Optionally, specify the current workspace of the asset.
Reservation Calendar Owner - Specify the reservation calendar owner who can edit
equipment reservations.
5. Specify the Class, Category, Profile, and Cost Code.
6. Specify the Manufacturer, Model, Serial Number, Hardware Version, Software
Version, Purchasing Asset ID, Biomedical Asset ID, Revision, and Vendor.
7. Specify this information:
UMDNS Code - Specify the code identifying the asset in the Universal Medical Device
Nomenclature System™ (UMDNS) which is a standard international nomenclature and
computer coding system for medical devices.
OEM Site/System ID - Specify the site and/or system identification for service
companies and original equipment manufacturer for the asset.
Coverage Type - Select the maintenance coverage type for the asset. Select Calendar
to indicate that the warranty is based on number of days used or Usage to indicate that
the warranty is based on actual usage.
8. Specify the X Coordinate, Y Coordinate, and Z Coordinate for which GIS features
should appear.
9. Select the Vehicle check box if the asset is a vehicle.
10. Specify the Part, Store, Bin, and Lot
Only specify parts that are tracked by the asset.
11. Specify this information:
Logout/Tagout - Select this check box if the asset equipment complies with OSHA
regulations on lockout/tagout procedures. This regulation ensures machines are
properly shut down and that they do not start again until service or maintenance on the
machine is completed.
Personal Protective Equipment - Select this check box if OSHA requires the use of

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

59 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

personal protective equipment when operating the equipment to reduce exposure to
hazards or injury.
Confined Space - Select this check box if the equipment is located in an area defined
as a confined space per OSHA regulations.
Statement of Conditions - Select this check box to indicate the asset's equipment
relates to the Statement of Conditions as required by The Joint Commission.
Building Maintenance Program - Select this check box to indicate the asset
equipment is inventoried in the building maintenance program.
HIPAA Confidentiality - Select this check box to indicate the asset equipment contains
confidential patient health information and the equipment must comply with regulations.
12. Specify the Parent Asset, and then select the Dependent check box if the asset is
dependent on the parent asset and select the Cost Roll-up check box if costs should
roll up to the parent asset.
13. Specify the Cost Roll-up, and then select the Dependent check box if the asset is
dependent on the property and select the Cost Roll-up check box if the costs should
roll up to the parent property of the child asset.
14. Specify the Ownership Type, Inventory Verification Date, Equipment Value,
External PO No., Purchase Date, Original Receipt Date, Latest Receipt Date,
Original Install Date, Latest Install Date, Purchase Cost, Commission Date, Cost
of Needed Repairs, Replacement Value, Disposal Type, Disposal Date.
15. Specify this information:
Facility Condition Index - Specify the resultant FCI based on the maintenance details.
Cost of Needed Repairs/Current Replacement Value=FCI
Primary Use - Specify the primary use for the asset.
Year Built - Specify the year the asset was built.
Floor Area - Specify the floor area, and then specify the unit of measure for the floor
area.
Service Life (years) - Specify the service life of the asset.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

60 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Risk Assessment - Specify the risk assessment code for the equipment.
Risk Assessment Index, Risk Assessment Score, Risk Assessment
Values Out of Sync, Risk Assessment Values Last Calculated, Risk Assessment
Survey Last Updated, and Risk Assessment Setup Last Updated are automatically
populated after answering the risk assessment survey.
Lock Risk Assessment Values - Select this check box to lock the reliability ranking
values for the equipment on the Risk Assessment tab of the Equipment screen.
If Lock Risk Assessment Values is selected, the system will not allow the
user to modify the risk assessment survey answers and calculate risk assessment
values for the equipment. The selection of equipment is prevented for update on the
Batch Update Equipment Ranking Values form.
16. Click Save Record.

Defining healthcare properties
Define a property or a collection of properties and assets that work together to create a
system. When assets and properties are linked to define a system then the entire system is
affected by actions or movements of one individual piece. For example, if one piece of
equipment breaks down, the entire system must be taken offline.
To define properties for healthcare:
1. Select Equipment > Properties Healthcare.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Organization, Property and a description, Department, Operational
Status, Type, Class, Category, Profile, and Cost Code.
4. Specify this information:
Loaned to Department - Specify the department to which the property has been
loaned.
PM WO Department - Specify the department responsible for the PM work order.
If the Department for the PM Schedules and Maintenance patterns work orders

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

61 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

are blank, the PM WO Department will be used to generate works orders. Otherwise,
the Department will be used.
Status - The system defaults Status to Installed. This value cannot be changed.
Criticality - Specify a criticality code to indicate the relative importance of the
equipment to the overall production of goods or services for your property.
Meter Unit - Specify the equipment’s primary unit of measure.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the equipment.
Safety - Select this check box to observe safety precautions when working with this
equipment.
Temperature Monitored - Select this check box if it is necessary or required to monitor
the equipment's temperature.
Out of Service - Select this check box if the equipment is not used. The system
automatically populates Withdrawal Date.
Current Workspace - Optionally, specify the current workspace of the property.
Reservation Calendar Owner - Specify the reservation calendar owner who can edit
equipment reservations.
5. Specify the Manufacturer, Model, Serial Number, Hardware Version, Software
Version, Purchasing Asset ID, Biomedical Asset ID, and Vendor.
6. Specify this information:
UMDNS Code - Specify the code identifying the asset in the Universal Medical Device
Nomenclature System™ (UMDNS) which is a standard international nomenclature and
computer coding system for medical devices.
OEM Site/System ID - Specify the site and/or system identification for service
companies and original equipment manufacturer for the property.
Coverage Type - Select the maintenance coverage type for the equipment. Select
Calendar to indicate that the warranty is based on number of days used or Usage to
indicate that the warranty is based on actual usage.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

62 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

7. Specify the X Coordinate, Y Coordinate, and Z Coordinate for which GIS features
should appear.
8. Specify this information:
Lockout/Tagout - Select this check box if the property equipment complies with OSHA
regulations on lockout/tagout procedures. This regulation ensures machines are
properly shut down and locked so that they do not start again until service or
maintenance on the machine is completed.
Personal Protective Equipment - Select this check box if OSHA requires the use of
personal protective equipment when operating the equipment to reduce exposure to
hazards or injury.
Confined Space - Select this check box if the equipment is located in an area defined
as a confined space as per OSHA regulations.
Statement of Conditions - Select this check box to indicate the property relates to the
Statement of Conditions as required by The Joint Commission.
Building Maintenance Program - Select this check box to indicate the property
equipment is inventoried in the building maintenance program.
HIPAA Confidentiality - Select this check box to indicate the property equipment
contains confidential patient health information and the equipment must comply with
regulations.
9. Specify the Parent Property, and then select the Dependent check box if the property
is dependent on the parent property and select the Cost Roll-up check box if costs
should roll up to the parent property.
10. Specify the Asset to categorize as a child of the property in the parent/child hierarchy,
and then select the Dependent check box if the asset is dependent on the property and
the Cost Roll-up check box if the costs should roll up to the parent property of the child
asset.
11. Specify the Location, Ownership Type, Inventory Verification Date, Equipment
Value, Purchase Order #, Purchase Date, Purchase Cost, Original Receipt Date,
Latest Receipt Date, Original Install Date, Latest Install Date, Commission Date,
Cost of Needed Repairs, Replacement Value, Disposal Type, and Disposal Date.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

63 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

12. Specify this information:
Facility Condition Index - Specify the resultant FCI based on the maintenance details.
Cost of Needed Repairs/Current Replacement Value=FCI
Primary Use - Specify the primary use for the equipment.
Year Built - Specify the year the equipment was built.
Floor Area - Specify the floor area, and then specify the unit of measure for the floor
area.
Service Life (years) - Specify the service life of the equipment.
Risk Assessment - Specify the risk assessment code for the equipment.
The system automatically populates Risk Assessment Index, Risk
Assessment Score, Risk Assessment Values Out of Sync, Risk Assessment
Values Last Calculated, Risk Assessment Survey Last Updated, and Risk
Assessment Setup Last Updated, after answering the risk assessment survey.
Eligible for Energy Star Label - Select this check box if the facility is eligible for the
Energy Star label.
Lock Risk Assessment Values - Select this check box to lock the reliability ranking
values for the equipment on the Risk Assessment tab of the Equipment screen.
If Lock Risk Assessment Values is selected, the system will not allow the
user to modify the risk assessment survey answers and calculate risk assessment
values for the equipment. The system also prevents the selection of equipment for
update on the Batch Update Reliability Ranking Values tab.
13. Click Save Record.
To create a work order for the property, right-click on the form, and then click
Create WO.

Defining healthcare systems
Define a system consisting of a collection of properties or assets that work together to create
a system. When assets and properties are linked to define a system then the entire system is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

64 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

affected by actions or movements of one individual piece. For example, if one piece of
equipment breaks down, the entire system must be taken offline.
To define systems for healthcare:
1. Select Equipment > Systems Healthcare.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Organization, System and a description, Department, Operational
Status, Type, Class, Category, Profile, and Cost Code.
4. Specify this information:
Loaned to Department - Specify the department to which the system has been loaned.
PM WO Department - Specify the department responsible for the PM work order.
If the Department for the PM Schedules and Maintenance patterns work orders
are blank, the PM WO Department will be used to generate works orders. Otherwise,
the Department will be used.
Status - The system defaults the Status to Installed, and this value cannot be changed.
Criticality - Specify a criticality code to indicate the relative importance of the
equipment to the overall production of goods or services for your system.
Meter Unit - Specify the equipment’s primary unit of measure.
Current Workspace - Optionally, specify the current workspace of the system.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the equipment.
Safety - Select this check box to observe safety precautions when working with this
equipment.
Temperature Monitored - Select this check box if it is necessary or required to monitor
the equipment's temperature.
Out of Service - Select this check box if the asset is not used. The system
automatically populates Withdrawal Date.
Reservation Calendar Owner - Specify the reservation calendar owner who can edit

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

65 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equipment reservations.
5. Specify the Manufacturer, Model, Serial Number, Hardware Version, Software
Version, Purchasing Asset ID, Biomedical Asset ID, Revision, and Vendor.
6. Specify this information:
UMDNS Code - Specify the code identifying the asset in the Universal Medical Device
Nomenclature System™ (UMDNS) which is a standard international nomenclature and
computer coding system for medical devices.
OEM Site/System ID - Specify the site and/or system identification for service
companies and original equipment manufacturer for the system.
Coverage Type - Select the maintenance coverage type for the asset. Select Calendar
to indicate that the warranty is based on number of days used or Usage to indicate that
the warranty is based on actual usage.
7. Specify the X Coordinate, Y Coordinate, and Z Coordinate for which the GIS features
should appear.
8. Specify this information:
Lockout/Tagout - Select this check box if the system equipment complies with OSHA
regulations on lockout/tagout procedures. This regulation ensures machines are
properly shut down and that they do not start again until service or maintenance on the
machine is completed.
Personal Protective Equipment - Select this check box if OSHA requires the use of
personal protective equipment when operating the equipment to reduce exposure to
hazards or injury.
Confined Space - Select this check box if the equipment is located in an area defined
as a confined space as per OSHA regulations.
Statement of Conditions - Select this check box to indicate the system relates to the
Statement of Conditions as required by The Joint Commission.
Building Maintenance Program - Select this check box to indicate the system
equipment is inventoried in the building maintenance program.
HIPAA Confidentiality - Select this check box to indicate the system equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

66 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

contains confidential patient health information and the equipment must comply with
regulations.
9. Specify the Ownership Type, Inventory Verification Date, Equipment Value,
Purchase Order #, Purchase Date, Purchase Cost, Original Receipt Date, Latest
Receipt Date, Original Install Date, Latest Install Date, Commission Date, Cost of
Needed Repairs, Replacement Value, Disposal Type, and Disposal Date.
10. Specify this information:
Facility Condition Index - Specify the resultant FCI based on the maintenance details.
Cost of Needed Repairs/Current Replacement Value=FCI.
Primary Use - Specify the primary use for the equipment.
Year Built - Specify the year the equipment was built.
Floor Area - Specify the floor area, and then specify the unit of measure for the floor
area.
Eligible for Energy Star Label - Select if the facility is eligible for the Energy Star label.
Service Life (years) - Specify the service life of the equipment.
Risk Assessment - Specify the reliability ranking code for the equipment.
The system automatically populates Risk Assessment Index, Risk
Assessment Score, Risk Assessment Values Out of Sync, Risk Assessment
Values Last Calculated, Risk Assessment Survey Last Updated, and Risk
Assessment Setup Last Updated, after answering the risk assessment survey.
Lock Risk Assessment Values - Select this check box to lock the reliability ranking
values for the equipment on the Risk Assessment Survey tab of the Equipment screen.
If Lock Risk Assessment Values is selected, the system will not allow the
user to modify the risk assessment survey answers and calculate risk assessment
values for the equipment. The system also prevents the selection of equipment for
update on the Batch Update Risk Assessment Values form.
11. Click Save Record.

Creating warranties

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

67 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define warranty documents to set up supplier and/or manufacturer information for the
warranty and specify general warranty information. Specify the duration of the warranty and
the percentages indicating how much the warranty covers for different material and labor
expenses.
You may view documents previously associated with the warranty. Click View Document to
open and view the document.
To set up warranties:
1. Select Equipment > Warranty > Warranties.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Organization, Warranty and description, and Warranty Type.
4. Specify this information:
Control Number - Specify the control number to track the warranty through the
manufacturer or supplier.
5. Specify the Manufacturer, Supplier, Class, Agreement Type, Agreement Start Date,
and Agreement End Date.
6. Select the On-site Repair check box to indicate the warranty covers an on-site repair.
7. Select the Loaner Provided check box to indicate the warranty provides loaner
equipment.
8. Specify this information:
Renewal Alert Email - Specify an email address to which to send an email message
alert when the warranty approaches the expiration or agreement end date.
Start Date Basis - Select Commission Date, Original Receipt Date, Latest Receipt
Date, Original Install Date, Latest Install Date, or Agreement Start Date to indicate
at which date the warranty coverage should begin.
9. Specify the Default Duration and Default Renewal Threshold.
10. Specify this information:
Labor % - Specify the percentage of labor costs covered by this warranty.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

68 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Hired Labor % - Specify the percentage of hired labor costs covered by this warranty.
Services % - Specify the percentage of service costs covered by this warranty.
Stock Items % - Specify the percentage of stock material costs covered by this
warranty.
Direct Purchases % - Specify the percentage of direct purchase material costs covered
by this warranty.
Tools % - Specify the percentage of tool costs covered by this warranty.
11. Specify the Fixed Labor Rate, Fixed Labor Amount, Fixed Stock Amount, Max.
Labor Amount/Claim, and Max. Stock Amount/Claim.
12. For the document details, specify the File name, File Type, Revision Number,
Revision Date, File Location, and number of Pages.
13. Select the Exclude PM Work Order check box to exclude preventive maintenance work
orders from being covered by this warranty.
14. Select the Part List Required for Warranty Claim check box to indicate that a part list
is required before it will be covered by this warranty.
15. Select the RMA Required check box to require a return merchandise authorization
coverage for this warranty.
16. Click Save Record.

Associating parts to warranties
To associate parts to warranties:
1. Select Equipment > Warranty > Warranties.
2. Select the warranty with which to associate parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Specify this information:
Part - Select the part to associate with the warranty.
Warranty Period - Specify the number of days that the part is under warranty once the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

69 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

part is issued.
Reimbursement Type - Specify if the warranty covers a cash reimbursement or a
replacement of the part.
4. Select Active if the part is currently active.
5. Click Submit.

Associating components with warranties
Associate components like EMRS codes with warranties based on system level and assembly
level, and specify costs associated with the warranty.
1. Select Equipment > Warranty > Warranties.
2. Select the warranty with which to associate a component, and then click the
Components tab.
3. Specify the System level, Assembly level, and Component level.
You can specify the System level or the System level and the Assembly level. If
you only specify the System level, the warranty will be associated with all assemblies
and components in the selected system. If you only specify the System level and the
Assembly level, the warranty will be associated with all components in the selected
assembly.
4. Optionally, select the Use Cost Coverage Values on Header check box to
automatically populate the cost coverage fields with information from the Warranty
screen. Otherwise, you can manually populate these fields. The cost coverage fields
include:
Labor % - The percentage of labor costs covered by this warranty.
Hired Labor % - The percentage of hired labor costs covered by this warranty.
Services % - The percentage of service costs covered by this warranty.
Stock Items % - The percentage of stock material costs covered by this warranty.
Direct Purchases % - The percentage of direct purchase material costs covered by this
warranty.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

70 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Tools % - The percentage of tool costs covered by this warranty.
Fixed Labor Rate - Specify the fixed labor rate costs covered by this warranty
Fixed Labor Amount - Specify the fixed labor amount covered by this warranty.
Fixed Stock Amount - Specify the fixed stock amount covered by this warranty.
Max. Labor Amount/Claim - Specify the maximum labor amount per claim covered by
this warranty.
Max. Stock Amount/Claim - Specify the maximum stock amount per claim covered by
this warranty.
5. Click Submit.

Associating equipment with warranties
Associate equipment with warranties to track calendar-based or usage-based warranty
information. Equipment can be associated to one or more warranties.
1. Select Equipment > Warranty > Warranties.
2. Select the warranty with which to associate equipment, and then click the Equipment
tab.
3. In the Equipment field, specify the equipment to associate with the warranty.
4. In the Coverage Type field, specify if the warranty is based on number of days or actual
usage, and then specify this information:

Option

Description

Calendar

If the warranty is based on number of calendar days,
specify this information:
Duration (days) - Specify the length of the warranty
in days.
Threshold (days) - Optionally if you would like to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

71 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

receive a notification the warranty is about to expire,
specify the number of days prior to the warranty
expiration date that you would like to receive the
notice. For example, if the warranty expires on
November 30, 2019 and you would like to receive a
notification 30 days prior to the warranty expiring,
specify a threshold of 30.
Optionally, specify the date the warranty begins and
the date it expires.

Usage

If the warranty is based on actual usage, specify this
information:
Duration (UOM) - Specify the usage length of the
warranty.
If the duration is not specified on the
Warranty screen and the COVDURUP installation
parameter is set to "-", the duration field cannot be
updated. All of the fields on this tab are protected
while in insert mode.
Unit of Measure - Specify the unit of measure for the
duration of the warranty.
Threshold (UOM) - Specify the usage length prior to
expiration at which the system should notify you that
the warranty is about to expire.
Starting Usage - Specify the starting usage length
for the warranty. This is the usage length that
occurred prior to the warranty start date.
Expiration Usage - Specify the expiration usage
length for the warranty.

5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

72 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Associating VMRS codes with warranties
Associate EMRS codes with warranties to track warranty information for vehicle components.
If you do not associate any EMRS codes with a warranty, the warranty covers all components
of referenced vehicles.
Associate multiple EMRS codes with each warranty as needed.
Define EMRS codes before associating them with warranties. See Defining EMRS codes.
1. Select Equipment > Warranty > Warranties.
2. Select the warranty with which to associate EMRS codes, and then click the EMRS
Codes tab.
3. Click Add EMRS Code.
4. Specify the System Level, Assembly Level, and Component Level.
You cannot specify an Assembly Level unless you specified a System Level.
You cannot specify a Component Level unless you specified an Assembly Level.
5. Click Submit.

Printing warranty claim vs. settlement chart
Before you can set the parameters to generate the warranty claim vs. settlement chart, you
must update the system Status of the warranty claim to Response Received. The system
does not display this status as an option until the warranty claim has been given a system
Status of Approved.
To print warranty claim vs. settlement chart:
1. Select Equipment > Warranty > Warranties.
2. Select the warranty for which to generate the warranty claim vs. settlement chart, and
then click the Warranty Claim vs. Settlement Chart tab.
3. Specify the Start Date and End Date.
4. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

73 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Print.

Creating warranty claims
Create warranty claims to recoup faulty parts or material and labor costs incurred when
warranty-related repair work has to be performed in-house.
The work order costs are not displayed on the warranty claim unless you specified
that the piece of equipment listed on the work order activity is under warranty.
See these references:
• Defining regular work order headers
• Associating warranties with equipment
Associate your warranty claim with a piece of equipment, a work order, or an activity on a
work order to track warranty claim costs.
A Status of Unfinished is automatically assigned to new claims. After creating and specifying
all of the information for the claim, update the claim status to indicate its progress throughout
the claim process.
1. Select Equipment > Warranty > Warranty Claims.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the warranty claim belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Claim - Specify a description of the claim in the adjacent field. A claim number is
assigned after you save the record.
If you do not specify a description, the description is defaulted to the description
defined on the work order with which you associated this warranty claim.
Work Order - Specify the work order with which to associate the warranty claim.
Equipment is automatically populated based on the information provided on the Work
Orders page, and details like the serial number, commission date, part details, and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

74 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EMRS code details are populated based on the equipment record.
WO Labor, WO Hired Labor, WO Services, WO Stock Items, WO Direct Purchases,
WO Tools, WO Claim Amount, and Total Claim Amount are automatically populated
based on the warrantable costs for the selected work order.
If the selected Work Order is a multiple equipment or MEC work order, then
Equipment is automatically populated with the equipment on the work order, and it is
protected. You can now create warranty claims for the parent multiple equipment work
order or any related work order(s).
See Adding equipment to work orders to split work order costs.
Equipment - Specify the piece of equipment with which to associate the warranty claim.
If you do not select a piece of equipment, all work orders including MEC work orders are
displayed.
If you do select a piece of equipment, then only the work orders for which the work order
equipment is the same as the equipment on the claim are displayed.
Status - Select the status of the claim if you are authorized to do so. Changing the
status of a warranty claim may affect additional system checks and field changes:

Option

Description

Approved

A system check is performed to verify if an attached
work order has a system status of Completed. If the
work order does not have a system status of
Completed, you are asked whether you want to
continue. Click Yes to change the status to Approved.
Any future costs added to or subtracted from the work
order will not reflect on the warranty claim.

Canceled

All fields are protected on the Claims form except
Status.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

75 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Completed

All fields are protected on the Claims form except
Status.

Response received

Specify settlement details.
See Viewing warranty claims for equipment.

Unfinished

WO Labor, WO Hired Labor, WO Services, WO
Stock Items, and WO Direct Purchases are
refreshed based on an attached work order each time
the unfinished claim record is selected for display on
the Record View tab.

RMA Number - Specify the return material authorization (RMA) number.
Top Parent - Specify the highest-level parent of the equipment associated with this
warranty claim.
Top Parent Usage - Specify the usage value of the highest-level parent piece of
equipment.
4. Specify the Commission Date, Commissioning WO, Warranty, Usage, UOM,Class,
Date Filed, and Date Reported.
5. Click Save Record.

Viewing warranty claims for equipment
View the warranty claims associated with assets, positions, and systems.
To view the warranty claim for a piece of equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

76 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to view warranty claim lines, and then click the Warranty
Claims tab.
3. View the warranty claims for the equipment.
4. Optionally, click the Claim hyperlink to view details about the warranty claim.

Entering settlement details for warranty claims
Enter settlement details for a warranty claim after the claim has been settled. Enter monetary
values according to the amount of money you are able to recoup through the claim process.
The system automatically calculates WO Cost Settlement based on the monetary values you
enter in Labor, Hired Labor, Stock Items, and/or Direct Purchases. If you specified a
percentage to be recouped on the Warranty form, the system calculates WO Cost
Settlement based on the percentage.
Before you can enter settlement details, the system status of the warranty claim must be
Response Received. The system does not display this status as an option until the warranty
claim has been given a system status of Approved.
To enter settlement details for warranty claims:
1. Select Equipment > Warranty > Warranty Claims.
2. Select the claim for which to enter settlement details, and then click the Record View
tab.
3. Specify this information:
Status - Select Response received as the status of the warranty claim. The system
enables Settlement Details.
Date Resolved - Specify the date the warranty claim was resolved.
Labor - Specify a monetary value for labor.
Hired Labor - Specify a monetary value for hired labor.
Services - Specify a monetary value for services.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

77 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Stock Items - Specify a monetary value for stock items.
Direct Purchases - Specify a monetary value for direct purchases.
Tools - Specify a monetary value for tools.
WO Cost Settlement - Specify a monetary value for the cost settlement of the work
order.
Other Settlement - Specify a monetary value for expenses not accounted for in WO
Cost Settlement. The system automatically populates Total Settlement.
4. Click Save Record.

Associating activities with warranty claims
Associate activities and jobs to warranty claims and have their corresponding cost lines
associated to claim lines. The activities tab cannot be modified if the Warranty Claim Status is
Approved, Response Received, Completed, or Cancelled.
To associate activities and jobs to warranty claims:
1. Select Equipment > Warranty > Warranty Claims.
2. Select the warranty claim with which to associate activities and jobs, and then click the
Activities tab.
3. Select the Activity and Job to associate with the warranty claim.
4. Click Submit.

Adding claim lines to warranty claims
Add claim lines to warranty claims that are associated to a work order but need more
description of the claim.
You cannot edit this screen if the warranty claim status is changed to Approved,
Response Received, Completed, or Cancelled.
You cannot delete claim line records if the System check box is selected.
To add claim lines:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

78 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Equipment > Warranty > Warranty Claims.
2. Select the warranty to which to add claim lines, and then click the Claim Lines tab.
3. Click Add Claim Line.
4. Specify information for the claim line, such as the Activity, Job, Type, Description,
Amount, and Notes.
5. Optionally, clear the Include on Claim check box exclude the claim line and cost
amount on the warranty claim.
6. Click Submit.
7. Optionally, click Recalculate System Records to recalculate all claim line amounts
where the System check box is selected.

Evaluating equipment
Evaluate equipment to present a side-by-side comparison of potential equipment and existing
equipment. Equipment evaluations allow you to compare the cost of retaining existing
equipment versus the capital costs and resulting savings of acquiring the potential equipment.

Creating equipment evaluations
Create records to represent potential new equipment that will be evaluated as possible
replacements for existing equipment.
To create equipment evaluations:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Equipment Evaluations.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Organization, Description, Evaluation Status, Potential Manufacturer,
Potential Model Number, Estimated Cost of Materials, Major Group, Group,
Individual, Priority, and Additional Information.
4. Specify this information:
Commodity-1 - Select a commodity. The system automatically populates
Commodity-1 UOM.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

79 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If Commodity-1 is blank, the system protects Design Consumption Rate-1
and Design Usage UOM-1.
Once Commodity-1 is populated, the system enables Design Consumption Rate-1
and Design Usage UOM-1.
Design Consumption Rate-1 - Specify a design consumption rate. The system
automatically populates Design Consumption Rate UOM.
Design Usage UOM-1 - Select a unit of measure.
5. Specify the Manufacturer, Model Number, Class, Category, Equipment Type, and
Equipment Status.
6. Select the Gas Tracked check box if the equipment is GAS tracked.
7. Select the Include Out of Service Equipment check box if the equipment evaluation
will include out of service equipment.
8. Click Save Record.
To populate the equipment list with equipment matching the search criteria,
click Create/Refresh Equipment List. The system deletes records from the Equipment
Equivalency page with Status of Not Evaluated and then refreshes the equipment list.

Evaluating equipment equivalency
Select records of existing equipment for which to compare to potential equipment.
To evaluate equipment equivalency:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Equipment Evaluations.
2. Select an evaluation record for which to create an equipment equivalency, and then
click the Equipment Equivalency tab.
3. Select one or more equipment records to be evaluated for the potential equipment.
4. Click Mark as Equivalent.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

80 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To add equipment records for which to evaluate, click Add Equipment. Select the
equipment to add, and then click OK. The system inserts the new record into the
Equipment Equivalency list, and updates Equipment Status to Not Evaluated.
• To delete equipment records, select the equipment records for which to delete,
and then click Delete Selected Equipment.
• To designate equipment records as not equivalent, select the equipment records
for which to designate as not equivalent, and then click Mark as Not Equivalent.
• To designate equipment records as not evaluated, select the equipment records
for which to designate as not evaluated, and then click Mark as Not Evaluated.

Evaluating cost analysis for equipment
Select potential equipment records from which capital planning requests may be created.
Capital planning requests provide capital expenditure information based on forecasted labor
costs, forecasted material costs, and expected cost avoidance.
To evaluate cost analysis for equipment:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Equipment Evaluations.
2. Select a record for which to evaluate equipment, and then click the Cost Analysis tab.
3. Select one or more records for equipment that is considered for replacement.
4. Click Create Capital Planning Requests. The system creates capital planning
requests for each potential equipment record selected. The system automatically
populates Capital Planning Request.
To refresh cost data for selected equipment records, select the records, and
then click Refresh Cost Data for Selected Record.

Creating equipment hierarchies
Define parent/child relationships among equipment to link costs and meter readings.

Defining equipment hierarchies
Define parent/child relationships among equipment. Define parent records before child

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

81 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

records. If you add a third level, the child becomes a parent, and the added piece of
equipment is its child.
Equipment hierarchies must be consistent with the hierarchy rules described in
Understanding equipment. For example, a system cannot be the parent of a location because
locations are at the top of the hierarchy of equipment information. Assets, however, are the
exception to this rule. Although assets are at the bottom of the hierarchy of equipment
information, an asset can be the parent of a position.
To define equipment hierarchies:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to define a hierarchy, and then click the Structure tab.
3. Query for the equipment for which to define a hierarchy by specifying the Dataspy and
Filter.
4. Choose one of the following options:

Option

Description

Define a parent for a piece of
equipment

Drag and drop the equipment record from the grid to
the Add Parent drop point in the Structure Details.

Define a child for a piece of
equipment

Drag and drop the equipment record from the grid to
the selected parent equipment record in the Structure
Details. The system indicates the piece of equipment
is a child with the blue flag icon.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

82 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Drag and drop an equipment record from the grid to the blue flag icon next to
an existing record. The system adds the record from the grid as a sibling immediately
below the record next to the blue flag icon.
5. Click Save Record.

Specifying preferences for equipment hierarchies
The Structure Preferences screen is only accessible through the Structures tab of the
Assets screen. However, the preferences specified on this screen also affect the Structure
Details tab for Equipment and the Structure tab on the Positions, Systems, Locations,
Equipment Lookup, and Equipment Configuration screens.
1. Select Equipment > Assets.
2. Select the asset for which to specify equipment hierarchy preferences, then click the
Structure tab.
3. Click Actions and then click Structure Preferences.
4. Select which fields to make visible on the Structure tab.
5. Select to sort By Sequence or By Name.
6. Specify the following options:
Show Icons - Select to show icons.
Show EMRS Codes - Select to show EMRS codes associated with the equipment.
Show Parts - Select to show parts associated with the equipment.
Show Workspaces - Select to show workspaces associated with the equipment.
7. Click Save.

Reorganizing equipment hierarchies
Drag and drop equipment records within an equipment hierarchy to reorganize its structure.
To reorganize equipment hierarchies:
1. Select one of these options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

83 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to reorganize a hierarchy, and then click the Structure
tab.
3. Choose one of the following options:

Option

Description

Change the order in which child Drag and drop an equipment record from its current
equipment records appear
location in the Structure Details to the blue flag icon
next to the sibling record under which you want the
equipment to appear.

Move a piece of equipment
under a new parent

Drag and drop the equipment record from its current
location in the Structure Details to its new parent
record. The system will begin rolling up cost and
meter data for the equipment record to its new
parent.

4. Click Save Record.

Viewing equipment hierarchies
The system displays the hierarchical structure of a piece of equipment. To view equipment
hierarchies:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

84 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to view the hierarchy, and then click the Structure tab.
3. Specify the Dataspy and Filter to query for the equipment for which to define a
hierarchy.
4. View the equipment hierarchy on the left side of the form under Structure Details.
• A number, such as 2003001, followed by the equipment type, such as A, P,
indicates that this is the highest level for that equipment type.
• A plus sign (+) indicates that the equipment may have children, but they are not
displayed. To display an equipment’s children, click the plus sign.
• A minus sign (-) indicates that the equipment has children and the children are
visible. Click the minus sign to hide the children.
• Click on a piece of equipment to make it active; the equipment then becomes
highlighted in blue. The children of the active row on the hierarchical area (on the
left) are shown in detail on the right side of the form.
• To change the focus of the Structure Details, select an equipment record in the
tree view, and then click Display as Focal Point. The system updates the
Structure Details.
• To view the record details, select an equipment record in the tree view, and then
click Go to Selection. The system displays the Record View page for the
selected equipment.
5. Select one of the following options to change the focal point of the screen:
• Click Move to Top Level Asset to move the focal point to the highest level asset.
• Click Move to Top Level Position to move the focal point to the highest level
position.
• Click Move to Top Level System to move the focal point to the highest level
system.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

85 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. If segments, routes, and structures are synchronized, there are limitations for adding
and deleting equipment structure records.
If the organization option SRSTSYNC is set to I or ID, you cannot create equipment
structure records if the following conditions exist:
• The parent Linear Equipment Type is set to Right of Way, the child is set to
Route, and no corresponding record exists on the Routes tab.
• The parent Linear Equipment Type is set to Route, the child is set to Segment,
and no corresponding record exists on the Segments tab.
Additionally, if the organization option SRSTSYNC is set to D or ID, you cannot
delete equipment structure records if the following conditions exist:
• The parent Linear Equipment Type is set to Right of Way, the child is set to
Route, and a corresponding record exists on the Routes tab.
• The parent Linear Equipment Type is set to Route, the child is set to Segment,
and a corresponding record exists on the Segments tab.

Unlinking equipment
Unlink equipment records from the Structure Details tree view by unlinking the equipment
record from other equipment records.
To unlink equipment:
1. Select one of the following:.
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to unlink the structure, and then click the Structure tab.
3. Select the parent or child equipment record to unlink, and then click Un-Link.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

86 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Toggling cost rollup
Roll up costs and history to a particular parent piece of equipment for assets, positions, and
systems only.
To toggle cost rollup:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to toggle cost rollup, and then click the Structure tab.
If an equipment record has a toggle equipment cost icon next to it, the
equipment’s costs do not roll up to the parent equipment. Toggle the cost rollup to
modify the equipment record.
3. Select the parent or child equipment record for which to toggle cost rollup, and then click
Toggle Cost Rollup.

Viewing the parents of assets, positions, or systems
View a list of all immediate parents defined for equipment.
To view a list of parent equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to view parents, and then click the Structure tab.
3. Select the equipment record for which to view parents, and then click Show Parents.
4. Select the Dependent check box if the child is dependent on the parent.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

87 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• You can only select Dependent for one parent. You can also specify that no
parent is Dependent.
• When the selected equipment is an asset, position, or system, and a location is
listed as a parent of the equipment, the Dependent check box is unchecked for all
parents listed.
• Selecting the check box for one of the other parents listed will result in the removal
of the direct relationship with the location.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing the parent of a location
View the immediate parent location of another location.
To view the parent location:
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Locations.
2. Select the equipment for which to view the parent, and then click the Structure tab.
3. Select the location record for which to view the parent, and then click Show Parents.
4. The Dependent check box is always selected when both the parent and the child are
locations. You cannot change the setting of the Dependent check box in this case.
5. Click Submit.

Replacing child equipment
Replace child equipment record in the equipment hierarchy with another child equipment
record.
To replace child equipment:
1. Select Equipment > Process > Child Equipment Replacement.
2. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

88 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parent Equipment - Specify the parent equipment of the child equipment to be
replaced. The system automatically populates the equipment description and
Organization.
Child Equipment - Specify the child equipment to be replaced in the hierarchy. The
system automatically populates the equipment description, Organization, Status,
Class, Category, Location, Department, Manufacturer, Serial Number, and Model.
New Equipment - Select a new child equipment to replace the old child. The system
automatically populates the equipment description, Organization, Status, Class,
Category, Location, Department, Manufacturer, Serial Number, Model Number,
Store, Bin, and Lot.
3. Select the Core Return check box to designate the child equipment a repairable spare.
4. Select the Withdraw/Scrap check box to withdraw or scrap the child equipment.
5. Select the Return to Storeroom check box to return the child equipment to the
storeroom.
If you selected Return for Repair or Return to Storeroom, specify Store and
Bin.
6. Select one of the options for the cost details:

Option

Description

Apply Structure Change Cost to Select to apply the cost of the equipment structure
Parent
change to the parent equipment.

Apply Structure Change Cost to Select to apply the cost of the equipment structure
Child
change to the child equipment.

7. Select the Create New WO check box to create a new work order for the child
equipment replacement.
8. Specify the Work Order Org. and Standard WO.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

89 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

9. Select one of the options for work order details:

Option

Description

Create WO Before Structure
Change

Select to create the work order before the equipment
structure change.

Create WO After Structure
Change

Select to create the work order after the equipment
structure change.

10. Click Replace.
To detach the child equipment from the hierarchy without replacing it with
another child equipment, click Detach.

Creating work orders for equipment
You can create a work order and a work order activity for any piece of equipment or location
in the hierarchy.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to create a work order, and then click the Structure tab.
3. Select the equipment record for which to create a work order, and then click Create
WO.
4. Specify this information:
WO Description - Specify the description of the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

90 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If you leave this field blank and select a Problem Code, Problem Code is
populated as the Work Order Description.
WO Organization - Specify the organization to which the equipment or location
belongs.
Type - Select one of the options for the type of work order:

Option

Description

Breadown

Select to create a work order in response to an
equipment breakdown or failure.

Preventative maintenance

Select to create a preventive maintenance work
order.

Project

Select to create a work order as part of a project.

Work

Select to create a general work order.

Status - Select one of the options for the status of the work order:

Option

Description

Released

Select to create a work order for release.

Work Request

Select to create a work order request.

Priority - Specify the priority of the work order.
Assigned By - Specify the person who is assigning the work order.
Problem Code - Specify the code of the problem that required work.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

91 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Class - Specify the class of the work.
Department - Specify the department of the work.
Location - Specify the location of the work.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the work order.
Sched. Start Date and Sched. End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for the
work order.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the work order.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order.
5. Specify this Linear Reference information:
The Linear Reference Details section is available only if the equipment record
for which you are creating the work order is a linear equipment record.
From Point - Specify the starting point or from point on the linear equipment record
from which to perform the work order.
Ref. Description - Specify a description for the From Point.
Geographical Ref. - Specify a geographical reference for the From Point.
To Point - Specify the ending point or to point on the linear equipment record to which
to perform the work order.
Ref. Description - Specify a description for the To Point.
Geographical Ref. - Specify the geographical reference to the To Point .
6. Optionally, specify this work order activity information:
Trade - Specify the trade of the activity.
Task Plan - Specify the task plan list of the activity.
Material List - Specify the material list for this activity.
Activity Start Date and Activity End Date - Specify the start and end date for the
activity.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

92 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Estimated Hours - Specify the number of hours estimated to complete the activity.
People Required - Specify the number of people needed to complete the activity.
7. Click Submit.

Searching work orders for equipment
Search work orders for equipment from the Structure tab of the equipment.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to search for work orders, and then click the Structure
tab.
3. Click Actions and then select Search Work Orders.
4. View work orders on the regular work order screen.
5. Optionally, click New Record to create a new work order.
6. Click Close or Return Value to close the pop-up.

Creating comprehensive work orders for equipment
Create a work order with comprehensive details including linear reference details, work order
activities, and scheduling details.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

93 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to create a work order, and then click the Structure tab.
3. Click Actions and then select Create WO Comprehensive.
4. Create a work order on the regular work order screen.
5. Click Save.
6. Click Close or Return Value to close the pop-up.

Creating nonconformities for equipment
Create nonconformities for assets, positions, systems, and locations from the Structure tab of
the equipment.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to create nonconformities, and then click the Structure
tab.
3. Click Actions, and then select Create Nonconformities.
4. Create the nonconformity on the Nonconformities screen.
5. Click Save.

Viewing checklist items for equipment
View the results of entered checklists. This includes both work order and operator checklists.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

94 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to view checklist items, and then click the Checklist tab.
3. Specify this information:
Include Children - Select this check box to show all checklist items associated to the
children of selected equipment.
Comment Includes - Specify which text must be included in one or more of the
comments of the displayed checklists. For example, if you specify oil, the system will
search for comments that contain the word oil.
You can use wildcards in your search. For example, if you specify oil%filter the system
will search for comments that contain the word oil and then later in the text contain the
word filter.
4. Select the View Work Order hyperlink to view the work order associated with the
checklist item.
5. Select View Operator Checklist hyperlink to view the operator checklist associated
with the checklist item.
6. Select View Comments hyperlink to view comments associated with the checklist item.
7. Select View Documents hyperlink to view documents associated with the selected
checklist item.

Defining capacities for equipment
Record the anticipated capacity value the equipment can contribute. You can specify the
available and desired capacities for a selected capacity code.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

95 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to define capacities, and then click the Capacities tab.
3. Specify this information:
Capacity Code - Select the capacity code for which to record capacities.
Capacity - Specify the available capacity for the capacity code.
Desired Capacity - Specify the desired capacity for the capacity code.
Date Effective - Specify the date this capacity becomes effective.
4. Click Submit.

Printing the WO repair costs chart for equipment
Print the work order repair costs chart report for equipment. The report displays a list of all
work orders with a status of Released and Completed, and the costs associated for selected
equipment.
To print the work order repair costs chart for equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Click the Work Order Repair Costs Chart tab.
3. Specify the Start Date and End Date.
4. Click Submit.
5. Click Print.

Managing linear equipment
Associating references with linear equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

96 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Associate linear references with linear equipment and specify the point or segment at which
the reference is located.
Linear references enable you to dynamically segment work orders and equipment costs
based on meaningful reference descriptions.

Searching for references
Select an equipment record, and then search for linear references or linear equipment
records within a defined linear distance of the equipment record.
The point of intersection of two linear equipment records cannot be accurately
calculated unless you define the point of intersection as a linear reference on each equipment
record. For example, if you add MainSt. as a linear reference on Washington Ave. but do not
add Washington Ave. as a reference on Main St.,it is assumed that Washington Ave. crosses
Main St. at point 0 on Main St.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the asset, position, or system from which to begin your search, and then click the
Record View tab.
The selected equipment record must be a linear equipment record or a linear
reference.
3. Right-click, and then select Linear Equipment Search.
Originating Point is automatically populated with the midpoint of the equipment record.
For example, the midpoint is the length of the equipment record divided by 2 and
rounded to the defined precision of the equipment record. Search Parameters are
automatically populated with the class of the equipment record for which you are
searching for linear references.
If the equipment record on which you are basing your search does not contain
a Linear Reference UOM, Originating Point is protected and defaulted to 0, and the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

97 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Linear Distance unit of measure with Feet.
4. Specify this information:
Originating Point - Specify the point on the Originating Equipment from which to
begin your search.
Linear Distance - Specify the distance from the Originating Point of the Originating
Equipment within which to search.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the specified Linear Distance.
5. Specify filter criteria, and then click Run.
Linear references that fall on or within the specified distance and meet the filter criteria
are displayed. Each linear reference’s distance is calculated from the Originating Point
in the unit of measure of the Linear Distance, and the linear distance is displayed in the
list.
Each linear reference’s linear parent, linear parent organization, and linear
parent description is displayed if the linear parent equipment also falls on or within the
specified distance. The linear parent is the linear equipment record on which the
equipment record is a reference.
6. Optionally, click the Structure tab to view equipment hierarchy information.
7. Select a linear reference, and then click Go To.
The Record View page of a linear reference system or point of interest cannot
be displayed because they are not defined as equipment records.

Adding references to linear equipment
Add linear references to linear equipment records. A linear reference is a point or line along a
linear equipment record and serves as a reference point.
If two linear equipment records intersect, you must define the point of intersection as
a linear reference on each equipment record. For example, if Main St. and Washington Ave.
intersect, define Main St. as a linear reference on Washington Ave.’s equipment record and
define Washington Ave. as a linear reference on Main St.’s equipment record. If you do not
define the point of intersection as linear references on both equipment records, the system

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

98 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

will calculate linear distance incorrectly when searching for equipment.
To add references to linear equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Positions
2. Select the asset, system, or position for which to add a linear reference, and then click
the Linear References tab. The system automatically populates Equipment Length
and the unit of measure in the adjacent field.
3. Click Add Reference.
4. Specify this information:
Type - Select one of these options:

Option

Description

Linear reference system

Select to indicate that this reference denotes the
measurement system by which to locate a point, line,
or piece of equipment along the linear equipment
record. Mile markers on an interstate are one
example.

Related equipment

Select to indicate that this reference denotes
equipment that is located along the linear equip- ment
record. Exit ramps along an interstate are one
example.
Related equipment must be specified to display the
reference on the map on the Linear Overview tab.
If you select Related equipment, the system

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

99 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

enables Equipment.

Point of interest

Select to indicate that this reference denotes any
point along the linear equipment record that is
important to track, but is not defined as an equipment
record within the system. Road signs are one
example.

Reference types are linked to the LRTP entity for which you must define your
reference type codes. Depending on your system configuration, the codes listed below
are not the codes that appear in the dropdown. Contact your system administrator for
more information.
Class - Specify the class of the linear reference. This is required for the linear reference
to display on the map on the Linear Overview screen.
Equipment - Specify the equipment record to add as the reference if you selected
Related equipment as the Type. The system automatically populates Ref. Description,
Equipment Org., and Geographical Reference.
Ref. Description - Specify a description of the reference.
From Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record from which to begin the
reference.
To Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record to end the reference.
Geographical Reference - Specify a geographical reference point for the reference.
Inspection Direction - Specify the typical direction in which an equipment inspection is
performed.
Flow - Specify the typical direction in which the process flows.
For example, you can specify the traffic direction of a street or the direction in which oil
flows through a pipe.
Apply to Children - Select this check box to have the linear references of this record
applied to all of the child records.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

100 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Point Reference - Select this check box if the linear reference is a single point. For
example, a signal light on a track would be a Point Reference that exists at one specific
place. After you click the check box, the To Point is updated to match the From Point.
Apply to Route/ROW - Optionally, select this check box to apply the linear reference to
a route or right of way.
5. Select the Display on Overview check box to display the reference on the map on the
Linear Overview tab.
6. Click Submit.

Splitting linear reference records
Split a linear reference record into different segments. Enter the split point where the record
must be split and a description for the segments.
To split a linear reference record:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the asset to modify, and then click the Linear References tab.
3. Select a linear reference record to split, and then select Split.
4. Specify the Date Effective, Split Point, Description Segment 1, and Description
Segment 2.
5. Select Submit.
You can also split a linear reference record into three parts. Select the linear
reference to split, and then select Insert Inside. Specify the Date Effective, From
Point, To Point, and Description.
For example, dirt was the original surface of a 12 mile long road. After January 1st,
gravel is used to cover mile 4, 5, and 6. For this example, specify January 1 as the Date

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

101 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Effective, specify 4 as the From Point, specify 7 as the To Point, and specify that the
dirt is being replaced with gravel for the Description.

Viewing linear overview for equipment
View linear reference types for equipment. The Linear Overview tab displays a line graph for
information found in the Linear References tab, including linear reference types, points of
interest, related equipment, and related parts of the linear equipment.
When the tab is loaded the system will attempt to display a map showing the selected header
equipment and any related equipment. You must have the GIS module installed to view the
map. All equipment to be displayed on this map must have a GISOBJID and be integrated to
the GIS. You must also select Show Block in Screen Designer mode. On the Linear
References tab of the equipment, the Type must be specified as Related Equipment and the
equipment must have a specified Class. The Display on Overview preference must be
selected on the Linear Overview tab as well.
To view linear overview for equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the asset for which to view the linear overview, and then click the Linear
Overview tab.
3. Optionally, click the Select Preference drop down to select a user preference for
viewing the screen. See Editing linear overview preferences.
4. Specify this information:
Range Selector - Click the Range Selector button and select the range to view by
placing the sliders on the view from points and view to points.
For example, to view the linear overview of equipment between the values 50
and 100, place the first slider at 50 and the second at 100.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

102 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Effective - Specify the effective date for the linear overview.
The system defaults this to the system date. If you change the effective date,
the system refreshes the View From Point and the View To Point.
5. View the linear overview for the selected asset.
Rest on a record to view the reference description, range, effective dates,
inspection direction, flow, relationship type, equipment, equipment description, part, part
description, part condition, and work orders. When resting on work orders, checklists,
and inspection results, the system will display the first 10 fields of the selected dataspy.
6. Select Zoom In or Zoom Out to view a smaller or larger section of the range.

Editing linear overview preferences
Edit preferences for Linear Overview.
To edit the preferences:
1. Select one of these options:.
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to change the preferences for the linear overview, and
then click the Linear Overview tab.
3. Select Preferences to specify the display options.
4. Select an existing preference to edit or click Copy to create a new preference.
5. Specify the features and classes to include.
6. Specify the route types and segment types to include.
7. Specify these options for the Filters:
Default Filter - Specify the default filter for the linear overview display.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

103 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Default Color - Optionally, specify the default color display for the records if no specific
color is specified.
Include Related Equipment in Applied Filter - Select to include any related
equipment in the filtered display.
Hide Routes - Select to hide routes from the linear overview display.
Hide Segments - Select to hide segments from the linear overview display.
Group Segments under Default Type - Select to group all segments, regardless of
their type, under one type.
Default Preference - Select to make the preference the default preference for the linear
overview display.
8. Click Save.

Adding linear condition references to equipment
Add linear condition references to linear equipment. Linear condition references are similar to
linear references but specifically deal with the condition, risk, and criticality of the particular
section of linear equipment.
For example, a rail track may have a straight segment of 500 feet that is in good condition
and is a low risk, followed by a curved segment of 300 feet that is in medium condition and
has a higher risk.
To add linear condition references to linear equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Positions
2. Select the asset, system, or position for which to add a linear condition, and then click
the Linear Condition tab. The system automatically populates Equipment Length, the
unit of measure in the adjacent field, and Direction.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

104 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Specify this information:
Condition Score - Optionally, specify the condition score for the linear equipment..
Condition Index - Optionally, specify a condition index for the linear equipment.
Risk Priority Number - Optionally, specify the risk priority number for the linear
equipment.
Risk Priority Index - Optionally, specify a risk priority index for the linear equipment.
Criticality Score - Optionally, specify the criticality score for the linear equipment.
Criticality - Optionally, specify the criticality index for the linear equipment.
From Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record from which to begin the
condition.
To Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record to end the condition.
Date Effective - Specify the effective date for the linear condition.
Date Expired - Specify the expiration date for the linear condition.
Apply to Children - Optionally, select this check box to have the linear conditions of
this record applied to all of the child records.
4. Click Submit.

Defining linear direction setup
Define a linear direction for linear equipment. A linear equipment could increase from north to
south, meaning the starting point is in the north and the ending point is in the south. Once that
is determined, offsets can only be recorded in the direction of the equipment or in the
opposite direction.
The selection for north and south does not mean the linear equipment must always travel
north to south. This selection is only used to identify the general direction.
To define a linear direction and the related opposite direction:
1. Select Equipment > Linear Direction Setup.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

105 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Direction and Opposite Direction.
4. Click Save.

Viewing equipment used for linear references
View where equipment is used as related equipment on the Linear References tab. You can
also view equipment parents, that is the parent route or the right of way, if the equipment is
used on the Segments or Routes tab.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to view details, and then click the Linear Where Used
tab.
3. View where the selected equipment is used.

Adding routes to equipment
Routes are pieces of equipment that together form a larger piece of linear equipment, also
known as a right of way. For example, a railroad track may consist of two routes, one track
going north and one track going south. Routes are made of smaller segments.
See Adding segments to equipment.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the linear equipment for which to add routes, and then click the Routes tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

106 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The selected equipment must have Linear Equipment Type defined as Right
of Way.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the route.
From Point - Specify the point from which to start the route.
Date Effective - Specify the effective date for the relationship between the route and
the equipment.
Date Expired - Specify the expiration date for the relationship between the route and
the equipment.
Route Identifier - Optionally, specify a route identifier.
Overview Sequence - Optionally, specify a sequence number for the route when
displayed on the linear overview.
The Route Identifier and Overview Sequence number are used to determine
the order of routes on the Linear Overview tab.
4. Click Submit.
When you create a route on this screen and the organization option
SRSTSYNC is set to I or ID, a structure record is also created. Similarly, when you
delete a record on this screen and the organization option SRSTSYNC is set to D or ID,
the related structure record is also deleted.

Adding segments to equipment
Segments are pieces of equipment that are part of routes. Segments can be a variety of
lengths or a specific point. For example, a railroad track may consist of a straight segment of
500 feet, a curved segment of 300 feet, and a switch of 60 feet.
To identify equipment as a segment, specify the Linear Equipment Type as Segment. The
linear equipment to which segments are associated must have the Linear Equipment Type
defined as Route.
To add segments to equipment:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

107 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the linear equipment for which to add segments, and then click the Segments
tab.
The selected equipment must have the Linear Equipment Type defined as
Route.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the segment.
From Point - Specify the point from which to start the segment.
Date Effective - Specify the effective date for the relationship between the route and
the right of way.
Date Expired - Specify the expiration date for the segment.
Branch Point - Select this check box if the segment is a branch point.
4. Click Submit.
When you create a segment on this screen and the organization option
SRSTSYNC is set to I or ID, the system will also create a structure record. When you
delete a record on this screen and the organization option SRSTSYNC is set to D or ID,
the system will also delete the related structure record.

Adding right of ways to routes
Add right of ways to routes. The header linear equipment to which these right of way parents
are associated must be defined as a route, therefore the Linear Equipment Type must be
equal to System Type Route.
To add right of ways to routes:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

108 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the route for which to add right of ways, and then click the Route Parents tab.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the right of way.
From Point - Specify the point from which to start the route on the route.
Date Effective - Specify the effective date for the relationship between the route and
the right of way.
Date Expired - Specify the expiration date for the relationship between the route and
the right of way.
Route Identifier - Optionally, specify the route identifier.
Overview Sequence - Optionally, specify a sequence number for the route when
displayed on the linear overview.
4. Click Submit.
When you create a right of way on this screen and the organization option
SRSTSYNC is set to I or ID, the system will also create a structure record. When you
delete a record on this screen and the organization option SRSTSYNC is set to D or ID,
the system will also delete the related structure record.

Adding routes to segments
Add routes to linear equipment segments. The header linear equipment to which these route
parents are associated must be defined as a segment, therefore the Linear Equipment Type
must be equal to System Type Segment.
To add routes to segments:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

109 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the segment for which to add routes, and then click the Segment Parents tab.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the route.
From Point - Specify the point from which to start the segment.
Date Effective - Specify the effective date for the relationship between the segment and
the route.
Date Expired - Specify the expiration date for the relationship between the segment
and the route.
Branch Point - Select this check box if the segment is a branch point.
Branch Direction - If the segment is a branch point, specify a direction for the branch.
4. Click Submit.
When you create a route on this screen and the organization option
SRSTSYNC is set to I or ID, the system will also create a structure record. When you
delete a record on this screen and the organization option SRSTSYNC is set to D or ID,
the system will also delete the related structure record.

Defining meter information
A physical meter is a tangible device, such as a car odometer, that measures a particular
usage of a piece of equipment. Physical meters have limits on how much usage you can track
before the meter resets to zero. Define physical meters on the Meters form.
Logical meters record the accumulative usage of a piece of equipment throughout its
operational life. In the system, the meter due value of a preventive maintenance work order is
always based on a logical meter. Use logical meters to monitor equipment usage. Plan

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

110 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

preventive maintenance in response to logical meter levels. Define logical meters on the
Meters page of the Assets, Positions, Systems, or Locations form.

Defining physical meters
To define physical meters:
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Meters.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the meter belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Meter - Specify a unique code identifying the meter, and then specify a description of
the meter in the adjacent field.
Meter Unit - Specify the meter’s unit of measure.
Maximum Value - Specify the maximum value the meter can reach before it exceeds its
physical count limit and resets to zero. Leave Maximum Value blank if the meter cannot
reset to zero when it reaches its physical count limit.
Last Value - Specify the last meter reading as necessary.
Class - Specify the class of the meter. The classes shown belong to the MET entity.
When defining a physical meter, Service Point is a read-only field. You can
specify the Service Point of a piece of equipment when editing a meter record.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining logical meters
Define logical meters by linking meters with equipment. To define logical meters:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

111 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment with which to link a meter, and then click the Meters tab.
3. Click Add Meter.
4. Specify this information:
Unit of Measure - Specify the unit of measure for the logical meter.
Type of Meter - Select one of the following meter types:

Option

Description

Standalone

Select so that the equipment will not receive me ter
readings based on its established parent equipment
meters of the same UOM, nor will it send meter
readings to any of its established child equipment
meters of the same UOM.

Parent

Select to send the equipment’s meter readings down
to child equipment. If you have parent/child
relationships among equipment, specify meter
readings for the parent piece of equipment only when
adding meter readings.

Child

Select to enable the child equipment to receive usage
information from a higher-level piece of equipment.
The child equipment’s unit of measure (UOM) must
match that of the parent.

Parent & Child

Select to receive meter readings based on entries
made for its parent equipment meters of the same

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

112 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

UOM, and it will send meter readings to its children.

Total Usage - Specify the total usage of the logical meter. The system automatically
updates Usage Since Install and Usage Since Last WO.
Usage Since Install - Specify the usage of the logical meter since the last change in
the equipment hierarchy.
Est. Daily Usage - Specify the estimated amount of the daily usage.
Readings for Calc. - Specify the number of readings used to calculate the average
daily usage. The system automatically updates Avg. Daily Usage.
Physical Meter - Specify the code of the physical meter, if any.
Last Reading Date - Specify the date of the last meter reading.
5. Select the Up/Down Meter check box to allow new meter readings to be less than the
last meter readings. If this check box is not selected, an error message will be displayed
when you specify a new meter reading that is less than the last meter reading.
6. Click Submit.

Entering meter readings for logical meters
To enter meter readings for logical meters:
1. Select one of these options:.
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to enter meter readings, and then click the Meters tab.
3. Select the meter for which to enter a reading, and then click Enter Meter Reading.
You can enter a reading for a date that is earlier than the last reading date. The

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

113 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

value for the new reading must be between the prior and subsequent readings. For
example, if there are previous readings for August and October, you can enter a new
reading for September. If the reading in August was 100 and the reading in October was
200, then the reading entered for September must be between 100 and 200.
4. Specify this information:
Entry Type - Choose one of the entry types:

Option

Description

Reading

Specify the current meter reading for Value.

Difference

Specify the difference between the last reading and
the current reading for Value.

Date/Time

Specify the date and time of the meter reading.

Value

Specify the meter reading value.

Date/Time - Specify the date and time for the meter reading.
New Value - Specify the new value for the meter reading.
Work Order - Specify the work order. The system automatically populates Related
Work Order if a related work order exists.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing meter history
To view meter history:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

114 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to view meter history, and then click the Meters tab.
3. Select the meter, and then click View Meter History.
4. View the meter history details and then click Cancel.

Entering meter readings for equipment
Enter meter readings for equipment.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to enter meter readings, and then click the Meter
Readings tab.
3. Specify this information:
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the meter.
Entry Type - Specify the type of entry, for example reading or difference.
Date/Time - Specify the date and time of the entry.
The date entered must occur between the date of the last meter reading and
the current date. The current date is automatically populated.
Value - Specify the value of the meter reading.
Work Order - Optionally, associate a work orer with the meter reading.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

115 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Submit.

Deleting meter readings from history
You may only delete the most recent meter reading. To delete meter readings from history:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to delete meter readings from history, and then click the
Meters tab.
3. Select the meter, and then click View Meter History.
4. Select the meter reading to delete, and then click Delete Reading.
5. Click Cancel.

Entering meter readings in a batch
Enter meter readings or meter differences on the Batch Meter Readings form.
In some cases, the default UOM is a parent meter attached to one or more Child
("Receiving") meters of the same UOM. In such cases, the new meter reading must roll down
the hierarchy. See Creating equipment hierarchies.
To enter batch meter readings:
1. Select Equipment > Process > Batch Meter Readings.
2. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to enter meter readings.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

116 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Meter - Specify the meter code.
Difference - Select to calculate the difference between the last meter reading and the
current reading.
Difference is calculated by adding the new value entered to the last meter
reading.
Date/Time - Specify the date and time of the meter reading.
The date entered must occur between the date of the last meter reading and
the current date. The current date is automatically populated.
New Value - Specify the meter reading value.
Work Order - Specify the work order. Related Work Order is automatically populated.
3. Click Update Meters.
The meter readings are updated unless an error message is generated. In this
case, the error is listed in the Error Message field, and the row remains in the grid to be
edited.

Associating warranties with equipment
Associate warranty documents with specific pieces of equipment or with other equipment.
Define warranty terms based on equipment usage or by date.
One or more warranty coverage records may be established for a piece of equipment for
tracking purposes to ensure that stipulations of the warranty are adhered to both internally
and externally. In general, there are two types of warranty coverage records that can be
tracked for equipment: calendar-based and usage-based. Warranty coverage records can be
associated with an asset, position, or system.
Calendar-based coverage records require a duration value expressed in days. The start and
expiration of this type of warranty for a given piece of equipment is expressed in terms of
calendar dates. Usage-based warranty coverage records require a duration value expressed
in some unit of measure other than days. The warranty’s unit of measure has to be defined as
a logical meter for the equipment. The start and expiration of this type of warranty for a given
piece of equipment is expressed in terms of usage.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

117 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If you are using the COVDURUP installation parameter, you may modify the
Duration field of any warranty coverage record.
If you are using the COVDUPAC installation parameter, equipment can only have one active
warranty coverage at any given time.

Adding calendar-based warranty coverage to equipment
To manage warranties from the perspective of the warranty record, select
Equipment > Warranty > Warranties.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to add a warranty, and then click the Warranties tab.
3. Click Add Warranty Coverage.
4. Specify this information:
Warranty - Specify the warranty document to associate with the equipment.
Coverage Type - Select Calendar to indicate that the warranty is based on number of
days used.
Duration - Specify the length of the warranty, in days.
Threshold - Specify the number of days prior to expiration at which the system should
notify you that the warranty is about to expire.
Start Date - Specify the start date of the warranty.
Expiration Date - Specify the Expiration Date. Expiration Date is automatically
populated based on Start Date plus Duration. Modify the Expiration Date as
necessary.
Duration is automatically adjusted if you modify the Start Date or Expiration

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

118 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Date.
Active - Select to indicate that the warranty is currently active.
Duration UOM - Specify the usage length of the warranty and the usage unit of
measure. Last Value is automatically populated with the most recent meter reading of
this equipment record and unit of measure. If there is no meter reading, Last Value is
populated with the Total Usage of the equipment record and unit of measure.
Threshold UOM - Specify the amount of usage quantity prior to expiration at which the
system should notify you that the warranty is about to expire.
Starting Usage - Specify the amount of usage that occurred prior to the warranty start
date.
Expiration Usage - Specify the amount of usage at which the warranty expires. This
field is automatically populated based on Starting Usage plus Duration UOM. Modify
the Expiration Usage as necessary.
5. Click Submit.

Adding usage-based warranty coverage to equipment
To manage warranties from the perspective of the warranty record, select
Equipment > Warranty > Warranties.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to add a warranty, and then click the Warranties tab.
3. Click Add Warranty Coverage.
4. Specify this information:
Warranty - Specify the warranty document to associate with the equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

119 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Coverage Type - Select Usage to indicate that the warranty is based on actual usage.
Active - Select to indicate that the warranty is currently active.
Duration UOM - Specify the usage length of the warranty and the usage unit of
measure. The system automatically populates Last Value with the most recent meter
reading of this equipment record and unit of measure. If there is no meter reading, the
system populates Last Value with the Total Usage of the equipment record and unit of
measure.
Threshold UOM - Specify the amount of usage quantity prior to expiration at which the
system should notify you that the warranty is about to expire.
Starting Usage - Specify the amount of usage that occurred prior to the warranty start
date.
Expiration Usage - Specify the amount of usage at which the warranty expires. The
system automatically populates this field based on Starting Usage plus Duration UOM.
Modify the Expiration Usage as necessary.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing the nonconformities analysis chart
The nonconformity analysis chart displays a breakdown of nonconformities by severity,
intensity, importance, or condition index.
To view the nonconformity analysis chart for equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to view the nonconformities analysis, and then click the
Nonconformities Analysis tab.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

120 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Chart Type - Select the type of chart to display.
Group By - Select to group nonconformities by severity, intensity, importance, or
condition index.
Start Date End Date - Specify the date range for which to view nonconformities.
4. Click Submit.

Generating the OEE metrics report
Shows the overall efficiency of equipment based on the availability, performance, and quality
of the equipment.
To generate the OEE metrics report:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the asset, position, or system for which to display the OEE metrics report, and
then click the OEE Metrics tab.
3. Specify this information:
Type - Choose one of the following options:

Option

Description

OEE Summary

Select to display the availability, performance, quality,
and overall equipment efficiency charts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

121 of 2039

Selected vs. Prior

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select to display a chart comparison of the
availability, performance, quality, and overall
equipment efficiency for a selected date range versus
a prior date range.

Availability - Specify a threshold value for the availability of the equipment.
Performance - Specify a threshold value for the performance of the equipment.
Quality - Specify a threshold value for the quality of the equipment.
Red Max. Limit (%) - Specify the maximum value for the red limit. The system defaults
the value to 50.
Yellow Max. Limit (%) - Specify the maximum value for the yellow limit. The system
defaults the value to 75.
Green Max. Limit (%) - Specify the maximum value for the green limit. The system
defaults the value to 100.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the date range for which to generate the report.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing open repairs for assets
View information about internal and external requisitions, purchase orders, and work orders
that have been a part of the asset's repair. This tab will only display details for external repairs
when the associated PO Line has not yet been fully received.
To view repair information for an asset:
1. Select Equipment > Assets.
2. Select the asset for which to view open repair details, and then click the Open Repairs
tab.
3. View the requisitions and purchase orders that have not yet been fully received.

Releasing work orders for equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

122 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Release work orders for equipment. The system displays PM work orders that are awaiting
execution and all work orders that have a status of released. You can specify which work
orders should be released by specifying the WO Status of the work orders.
To release open work orders:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to release work orders, and then click the Open Work
Orders tab.
3. Select one or more work orders to release.
4. Specify this information:
WO Status - Specify Released to release the selected work orders.
New Scheduled Start Date - Optionally, specify a new scheduled start date for the
selected work orders.
5. Click Update WOs.

Adding parts associated to equipment
Associate parts to assets, positions, systems, or locations.
To add parts associated to equipment:
1. Select one of these options: Equipment > Assets.
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

123 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Setup > Categories
2. Select the equipment, work order, or part for which to add associated parts, and then
click the Parts Associated tab.
3. Specify the Part to associate and the Condition, Quantity, System Level, Assembly
Level, Component Level, Component Location, and Comments of the part
associated.
Condition can only be specified if the part is tracked by a condition.
4. Click Submit.

Associating permits with equipment
Associate permits with equipment records.
You must first define permits on the Permits form. See Defining permits.
To associate permits with equipment:
1. Select one of the following:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
• Equipment > Setup > Profiles
• Equipment > Setup > Categories
2. Select the equipment for which to associate permits, and then click the Permits tab.
3. Click Add Permit.
4. Specify the Permit to associate with the equipment and the PTW Type for the permit
type.
5. Specify the Type of Work and Priority to attach to the created permit to work, the Risk

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

124 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the permit poses, and the Isolation Type required on the lockout/tagout procedure of
equipment associated with the permit to work.
6. Click the Auto Create PTW check box to automatically create a permit to work.
7. Click the Apply to Children check box to have the permit details applied to all child
records.
8. Click the Mandatory check box to indicate that the permit is mandatory to complete
work.
9. Click the LOTO Required check box to require a lockout/tagout permit.
10. Click the Delete Pending check box to delete the pending permit record during the next
review.
11. Click Submit.

Associating ERP resources to equipment
Associate ERP resources to selected equipment to communicate equipment downtime for
any resources impacted when the selected equipment is taken down for unplanned
maintenance work.
A resource is a line of products, equipment, or materials used to complete a job.
Track Resources must be selected on the Record View page of the selected
equipment to associate resources.
If the selected equipment Status is Withdrawn, the system will not add or modify resources.
To associate ERP resources to equipment:
1. Select one of the following:
• Equipment > Assets
• Select Equipment > Positions
• Select Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment with which to associate ERP resources, and then click the
Resources tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

125 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Add Resource.
4. Specify this information:
Resource - Specify the resource to associate to the selected equipment. The system
automatically populates Accounting Entity, Name, and Type.
Cool-down Time (Hours) - Specify the time it takes in hours for the resource line to
cool down before use performing maintenance work.
Warm-up Time (Hours) - Specify the time it takes in hours for the resource line to warm
up before normal use.
Active - Select to designate this resource line as active.
5. Click Submit.

• To delete a resource association, select the resource record to delete, and then
click Delete Resource. The system deletes the resource if the resource is not
indirectly related to the selected equipment by parent equipment.
• To associate multiple resources, click Select Resources. The system displays the
Resources popup. Select the resources to associate to the selected equipment,
and then click Submit.
• To copy resources from parent equipment to the selected equipment, click Copy
Resources.
• To view the resource history for the selected equipment, click View Resource
History.

Adding PM schedules to equipment
View and modify the list of PM schedules for equipment like assets, positions, or systems on
the PM Schedules tab of the respective Equipment form.
Add a new PM schedule to the equipment record, change the due date, deactivate an existing
PM schedule, and delete a PM schedule altogether from the list of existing PM schedules for
the equipment. When adding a new PM schedule to an equipment record, the Work Order
Org. will default to the organization of the equipment if the organization is not common. If the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

126 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

organization is common, you must choose the specific organization for which to generate PM
work orders.
PM revision control cannot be active because changing equipment PM schedule relationships
demands a new revision of the PM schedule. If PM revision control is active, the PM
Schedule tab is for informational purposes only.
If you edit the length of a linear equipment record, associated PM records may be
automatically edited when installation parameter PMRVCTRL is set to No. If the new
equipment length falls on or within the length of the PM, the To Point of the PM record is
automatically updated based on the new equipment length. If the new equipment length falls
outside of the length of the PM, the PM record does not get updated.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to add a PM schedule, and then click the PM Schedules
tab.
3. Click Add PM.
If Work Order Org. is not automatically defaulted, you must specify a Work
Order Org. to activate the other fields on the form.
Date of Last Work Order is automatically populated with the Due Date of the current
work order for the PM. If the work order is a duplicate PM, the latest date is displayed.
4. Specify the PM, Department, Location, Route, WO Class, Cost Code, Assigned To,
and Supervisor.
5. Specify this information:
Perform Every - Specify the length of the interval of time to pass before the system
generates the next PM routine work order, and then select the unit of measure in the
adjacent field.
Due Date - Specify the due date of the first work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

127 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Each work order determines the due date of the following work order. If you
update the Due Date on the PM Schedules tab, the work order Due Date is updated so
that this due date is later than the last work order completion date. The interval is added
to the specified Due Date on the PM Schedules tab until a date later than the last
completion date is reached. Future due dates are accepted without validation.
Dormant Start - Specify the date on which the dormant period for any PM work orders
for the equipment begins.
Dormant End - Specify the date on which the dormant period for any PM work orders
for the equipment ends.
Reuse Dormant Period - Select to use the same specified dormant period for any PM
work orders for the equipment on a yearly basis. The specified Dormant Start and
Dormant End are automatically updated to future dates after the dormant period for the
equipment has elapsed. Additionally, the specified dormant period will be the default
dormant period for any new PM equipment records.
Test Point Set - Specify the test point set for calibration of the equipment.
If the work order is a calibration work order, the test points for the specified
equipment record are copied to the work order when it is released. The test points
related to the selected Test Point Set are copied.
Include Nonconformities - Select to include new observations for re-inspection for
existing nonconformities.
Due Nonconformities Only - Select to include only new observations created for
nonconformities that are due for inspection.
The inspector will not see nonconformities on the work order that are present
but not due for inspection. The inspector may be confused if he finds nonconformities
during the inspection that were not on the list, which may lead to duplicate
nonconformities
PM Type - Select one of these options:

Option

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

128 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Fixed

Select to issue the PM based on a fixed schedule
such as based on date or reading when the last PM
was originally due.

Variable

Select to issue the PM based on a variable schedule such as based on the date or reading on which
the last PM was completed.

Duplicate

Select to allow multiple PM work orders to be open at
the same time.
Selecting Duplicate as the PM type enables
you to create an exception to the rule that a PM
equipment may have only one work order for the PM
work order at a time.

Date Deactivated - Specify a date beyond which to discontinue generation of future PM
Work Orders.
Meter Interval - Specify the length of the interval of time indicating how frequently the
PM is to be performed, and then specify the unit of measure for the meter interval.
Meter Due - Specify the reading due value for the first work order.
Each work order determines the due reading of the following work order. If you
update Meter Due on the PM Schedules tab, the work order Meter Due is updated so
that this due reading is higher than the reading on the last work order completed. The
interval is added to the specified Meter Due on the Equipment tab until a reading
higher than the reading on the last work order completed is reached. Future due
readings are accepted without validation.
Meter # 2 Interval - Specify the length of the interval of time indicating how frequently
the PM is to be performed, and then specify the unit of measure for the meter interval.
Meter # 2 Due - Specify the reading due value for the first work order.
Specify more than one meter interval for a PM. For example, change the oil in a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

129 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

truck every 3,000 miles, according to Meter Interval and change the oil in the same
truck after 720 hours of running time according to Meter #2 Interval. You must specify a
value for Meter Interval to specify a value for Meter #2 Interval.
Perform On - Specify the week of the month and the day of the week on which to
perform the work on the equipment, such as the second Tuesday of the month due.
Select Last to handle scenarios in which there are five weeks in a month. The due date
is defaulted to the last week of the month.
Perform On is only available for duplicate PMs, and is not available for daily or
weekly frequencies.
6. Specify the Linear Reference Details information.
7. Click Submit.

Printing the PM repair costs chart for equipment
Print the PM work order repair costs chart report for equipment. The report displays a chart
that breaks down total PM costs by cost type. The report also contains a detail section that
lists individual PM work orders and the costs associated for selected equipment.
To print the PM repair costs chart for equipment:
1. Select Equipment > Assets.
2. Open the Assets form.
3. Click the PM Repair Costs Chart tab.
4. Specify the Start Date and End Date.
5. Click Submit.
6. Click Print.

Associating qualifications to vehicle assets
Associate qualifications to vehicle assets. These qualifications are used as part of the EAM
integration with the constraint optimizer for work order dispatching and sequencing.
1. Select one of these options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

130 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment to which to associate qualifications, and then click the
Qualifications tab.
The Vehicles check box on the Assets screen must be selected for the
constraint optimizer to make use of these qualifications by allowing qualifications to be
associated to any asset, system, or position record.
3. Click Add Qualification.
4. Specify this information:
Qualification - Specify the qualification to associate with the equipment.
Start Date - Specify the date on which the duration of the qualification begins.
Duration - Specify the duration of the qualification, and then select the unit of measure
for the duration of the qualification in the adjacent field. The expiration date of the
qualification is calculated based on the values entered for Start Date and Duration, and
then Expiration Date is populated with the appropriate date. If no value is entered for
Duration, you must specify the Expiration Date for the qualification manually.
The system immediately validates whether the qualification is current based on
the Start Date and Expiration Date for the qualification. If the qualification is current,
the system selects Qualified. If the duration of the qualification has expired or is not
current, the system automatically clears Qualified.
The system clears Qualified if you select Temporarily Disqualified. You can select to
disqualify a qualification as necessary by selecting Temporarily Disqualified. Selecting
Temporarily Disqualified overrides the qualification Expiration Date, and the
qualification is no longer valid even if the qualification has not expired.
Expiration Date - Specify the date the qualification expires.
Comments - Specify comments about the qualification.
Course Start and Course Finish - Specify the start date and finish date of the course.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

131 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Course Cost - Specify the cost of the course, and then select the currency for the
course cost in the adjacent field.
Completed - Select to indicate whether the certification is completed.
Certification Type - Select the type of certification. Certification types are linked to the
certification type entity, for which you must define certification type codes as user codes
on the System Codes form.
Certification Number - Specify the certification number for the qualification.
Hours - Specify the number of hours for the course.
CEU - Specify the number of continuing education units for the course.
Purpose - Specify the purpose of the course.
5. Click Submit.

Defining functions for RCM Project and equipment
Define functions for an equipment as part of the RCM assessment or RCM analysis for that
equipment. The RCM Level for the equipment must be set before defining a function. You can
also edit and delete functions on the Functions popup. After defining functions, use the
Functional Failures popup to define functional failures for functions.
To define functions for RCM Project and equipment:
1. Select one of these options:.
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to define functions, and then click the RCM tab.
3. Click Add/Edit Functions.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

132 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description - Specify a description of the function. Click Translations to translate the
description text into a different language.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number for the functional failure to order the failures
in the tree. If the sequence is not specified, the sequencing is listed in alphabetical order
by the description.
Note - Specify note details as necessary.
5. Click Submit.

Defining functional failures for functions
Define functional failures for previously defined functions of an equipment as part of the RCM
assessment or RCM analysis for that equipment. You can also edit and delete functional
failures on the Functional Failures popup. When you delete functional failures, all associated
children are deleted.
To define functional failures for functions:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Location
2. Select the equipment for which to define functional failure details, and then click the
RCM tab.
3. Click Add/Edit Functional Failures.
4. Specify this information:
Function - Select the function.
Description - Specify a description of the functional failure. Click Translations to
translate the description text into a different language.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

133 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Probability - Select the probability of the failure.
These are defined on the Risk Matrix screen. The probability is protected for the Risk
Analysis but can be specified for the Risk Assessment.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number for the functional failure to order the failures
in the tree. If the sequence is not specified, the sequencing is listed in alphabetical order
by the description.
Note - Specify note details as necessary.
5. Click Submit.

Editing consequences for functional failures
Edit consequences for previously defined functional failures or failure modes defined for an
equipment as part of the RCM assessment or RCM analysis for that equipment.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to edit functional failure consequences, and then click
the RCM tab.
3. Click Edit Failure Consequences.
4. Specify this information:
Consequence - Select the consequence for the functional failure.
Consequence Cost - Specify the monetary value of the consequence cost.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number for the consequence.
Note - Specify note details as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

134 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Adding RCM failure mitigation for RCM templates
Add mitigation actions for failure modes defined on the RCM tab of the RCM Templates
screen. Failure modes can be mitigated by a PM schedule, by condition monitoring, by
modifications, or by all these methods.
Mitigation information can only be specified if the RCM template has a status of Unfinished
and has failure mode records defined.
1. Select Equipment > Setup > RCM Templates.
2. Select the RCM template for which to define mitigation actions, and then click the RCM
Failure Mitigation tab.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization associated with the mitigation.
Failure Mode - Specify the failure mode for the mitigation.
Mitigation Type - Specify the type of mitigation.
Mitigated Probability - Specify the probability of the risk after being mitigated. The
system will recalculate the Risk Priority Number (RPN) and populate the new Risk
Level.
Mitigation Applied - Select this check box to indicate that the mitigation is applied. The
system will update the matching failure mode on the RCM tab of the template and
update the Risk Priority Number (RPN), and possibly that of the template itself.
Note - Optionally, specify a note for this mitigation.
PM Schedule - Optionally, specify the PM Schedule to associate with the mitigation.
Perform Every - Specify the frequency for the selected PM Schedule.
You can also add a Maintenance Pattern or a PM Plan as part of the mitigation. You can
also add a project or a case, for example if a modification is required, and an Aspect if
condition based monitoring (inspections) may be required. These fields are optional and
hidden on this tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

135 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Submit.

Defining failure modes
Define failure modes of equipment as part of the RCM analysis for that equipment. When you
delete failure modes, the associated functional failures will also be deleted.
To define failure modes:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to define failure modes, and then click the RCM tab.
3. Click Add/Edit Failure Modes.
4. Specify this information:
Description - Specify a description of the failure mode. Click Translations to translate
the description text into a different language.
Function - Select the function for the failure mode.
You can only specify the function if the RCM Level is specified as FMECA
(Failure Mode Effect and Criticality Analysis) on the equipment header record..
Probability - Select the probability of the failure.
These are defined on the Risk Matrix screen. The probability is protected for the Risk
Analysis but can be specified for the Risk Assessment.
Probability % - Specify the percentage for the probability of the failure.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number for the functional failure to order the failures
in the tree. If the sequence is not specified, the sequencing is listed in alphabetical order
by the description.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

136 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Note - Specify note details as necessary.
5. Specify this work order information:
Problem Code - Specify the code to identify the type of problem.
Failure Code - Specify the failure code for the equipment.
Cause Code - Specify the cause code identifying the cause of the problem.
Action Code - Specify the action taken to resolve the problem.
Standard WO - Specify the standard WO for the failure mode.
Downtime Hours - Specify the number of hours that the equipment will be out of
operation due to failure.
Downtime Cost - Specify the likely cost that will result from the equipment being out of
operation due to failure.
Symptom - Specify the symptom for the failure mode.
Tactical Cause - Specify the tactical cause for the failure mode.
Human Factor - Specify the human factor that causes the failure.
Workmanship - Specify the workmanship factor that causes the failure.
Human Oversight - Specify the human oversight being associated with the failure
mode.
Method of Detection - Specify the method of detecting the failure mode.
6. Click Submit.

Defining functional failures for failure modes
Define functional failures for previously defined failure modes of equipment as part of the
RCM analysis for that equipment. You can also edit and delete functional failures for failure
modes on the Functional Failures for Failure Modes popup.
To define functional failures for failure modes:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

137 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select one of these options:.
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to define functional failures for failure modes, and then
click the RCM tab.
3. Click Add/Edit Functional Failures for Failure Modes.
4. Specify the Failure Mode, Functional Failure, Sequence number, and Note details.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing RCM for equipment
View the Reliability Centered Maintenance (RCM) for equipment. Functions, functional
failures, failures modes, and consequence categories are displayed on this screen for a Risk
Assessment. If you set the RCM level as Risk Analysis, failure modes and associated
functional failures are also displayed on this screen. For a RCM Level of FMECA the system
behaves like a Risk Assessment, but the functional failure is then replaced by a failure mode.
To view RCM for equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the piece of equipment for which to view the RCM, and then click the RCM tab.
3. Select Action and then select Expand All to view all of the details or the functions and
failure modes.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

138 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You can also expand Functions or Failure Modes individually to view specific
details.
4. Select Action and then select Collapse All to close the details for the functions and
failure modes.
5. Optionally, select Action and then select one of these actions:

Option

Description

Add/Edit Functions

Define functions for a RCM Project and equipment
combination.

Add/Edit Functional Failures

Define functional failures for previously defined
functions of a RCM Project and equipment
combination. Functional Failures cannot be entered
for if the RCM Level is specified as FMECA (Failure
Mode Effects and Criticality Analysis) on the
equipment header record.

Edit Failure Consequences

Edit consequences for previously defined functional
failures or failure modes of a RCM Project and
equipment combination.

Add/Edit Failure Modes

Define failure mode details for a RCM Project and
equipment combination.
You cannot add and edit failure modes if the
RCM level is specified as Risk Assessment.

Add/Edit Functional Failure for
Failure Modes

Define functional failures for previously defined failure
modes of a RCM Project and equipment combination.
You can only add and edit functional failures
for failure modes if the RCM level is specified as Risk

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

139 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Analysis.

Adding RCM failure mitigation for equipment
Add mitigation actions for failure modes defined on the RCM tab of the equipment screens.
Failure modes can be mitigated by a PM schedule, by condition monitoring, by modifications,
or by all these methods.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to define mitigation actions, and then click the RCM
Failure Mitigation tab.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization associated with the mitigation.
Failure Mode - Specify the failure mode for the mitigation.
Mitigation Type - Specify the type of mitigation.
Mitigated Probability - Specify the probability of the risk after being mitigated. The
system will recalculate the Risk Priority Number (RPN) and populate the new Risk
Level.
Mitigation Applied - Select this check box to indicate that the mitigation is applied and
included in the Risk Priority Number calculation of the equipment. The system will
update the matching failure mode on the RCM tab for equipment, and may also update
the Risk Priority Number (RPN) and the Risk Level on the equipment.
Note - Optionally, specify a note for this mitigation.
PM Schedule - Optionally, specify the PM Schedule to associate with the mitigation.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

140 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Perform Every - Specify the frequency for the selected PM Schedule.
You can also add a Maintenance Pattern or a PM Plan as part of the mitigation. You can
also add a project or a case, for example if a modification is required, and an Aspect if
condition based monitoring (inspections) may be required. These fields are optional and
hidden on this tab.
4. Click Submit.
5. Click Activate Mitigation to activate the mitigation for the equipment. If clicked, the
system will:
• Add the equipment to the selected PM schedule if not already there and
synchronizes the PM interval data.
• Add the equipment to the selected Maintenance Pattern and activate it for the first
sequence.
• Add the equipment to the selected PM Plan.

Importing RCM details from equipment
Copy RCM details from one equipment to another or to a RCM template.
The copy function includes details from both the RCM tab and the RCM Failure Mitigation
tab of the selected RCM template. Importing the template mitigation data is optional.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
• Equipment > RCM Templates
2. Select the equipment or template for which to import RCM details, and then click the
RCM tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

141 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Actions, and then select Import from Equipment.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Select the equipment from which to import RCM details.
Import Probabilities - Select this check box to import probability details.
Import Consequences - Select this check box to import consequence details.
Import Mitigation - Select this check box to import mitigation details. This check box is
available if mitigation details are specified on the RCM Failure Mitigation tab for the
equipment.
5. Click Submit.

Importing RCM details from a RCM template
Copy RCM details from an approved RCM Template to an equipment or to a RCM Template.
The copy function includes details from both the RCM tab and the RCM Failure Mitigation
tab of the selected RCM template. Importing the template mitigation data is optional.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
• Equipment > RCM Templates
2. Select the equipment or template for which to import RCM details, and then click the
RCM tab.
3. Click Actions, and then select Import from RCM Template.
4. Specify this information:
RCM Template - Select the RCM template from which to import RCM details.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

142 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Import Probabilities - Select this check box to import probability details.
Import Consequences - Select this check box to import consequence details.
Import Mitigation - Select this check box to import mitigation details. This check box is
available if mitigation details are specified on the RCM Failure Mitigation tab for the
RCM template.
5. Click Submit.

Creating RCM templates
The reliability manager can maintain templates for RCM on this screen. Both the RCM
structure and failure mode mitigation strategies can be pre-defined on this screen. Templates
created here are under revision control and approved tempaltes can be imported to the
equipment screens or to other templates.
1. Select Equipment > Setup > RCM Templates.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
RCM Template - Specify the name of the RCM template and a description for the
template.
Status - Specify the status of the RCM template.
Class - Specify the class associatedw ith the RCM template.
RCM Project - Specify the RCM project associated with the template.
RCM Level - Specify the RCM level associated with the template.
Criticality - Specify the criticality associated with the template. Use this indicator to filter
templates that are relevant for certain equipment.
Date Review Required - Specify the required review date.
Out of Service - Select this check box to indicate this RCM template is no longer being
used.
4. Click Save.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

143 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Optionally, click Create New Revision to create a new revision of the RCM template. A
revision can be created from any previous revision of the template if after creation there
is only one revision with a status of Unfinished or Request Approval. Optionally, specify
the Revision Reason.

Viewing structure for RCM templates
ew and edit the Risk Assessment, Risk Analysis, or FMECA hierarchy structure for a RCM
template. Functions, functional failures, and consequence categories are displayed on this
screen for a Risk Assessment. If you set the RCM level as Risk Analysis, failure modes and
associated functional failures are also displayed on this screen. If you set the RCM level as
FMECA, functions, failure modes, and consequence categories can be defined.
RCM information can only be specified if the RCM template has a status of Unfinished.
1. Select Equipment > Setup > RCM Templates.
2. Select the RCM template for which to view the RCM hierarchy, and then click the RCM
tab.
3. Select Action and then select Expand All to view all of the details or the functions and
failure modes.
You can also expand Functions or Failure Modes individually to view specific
details.
4. Select Action and then select Collapse All to close the details for the functions and
failure modes.
5. Optionally, select Action and then select one of these actions:

Option

Description

Add/Edit Functions

Define functions for a RCM Project and RCM template
combination.

Add/Edit Functional Failures

Define functional failures for previously defined functions
of a RCM Project and RCM template combination.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

144 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Functional Failures cannot be entered for if the RCM
Level is specified as FMECA (Failure Mode Effects and
Criticality Analysis) on the RCM header record.

Edit Failure Consequences

Edit consequences for previously defined functional
failures or failure modes of a RCM Project and RCM
template combination.

Add/Edit Failure Modes

Define failure mode details for a RCM Project and RCM
template combination.
You cannot add and edit failure modes if the
RCM Level is specified as Risk Assessment.

Add/Edit Functional Failure for
Failure Modes

Define functional failures for previously defined failure
modes of a RCM Project and RCM template
combination.
You can only add and edit functional failures for
failure modes if the RCM Level is specified as Risk
Analysis.

Adding RCM failure mitigation for RCM templates
Add mitigation actions for failure modes defined on the RCM tab of the RCM Templates
screen. Failure modes can be mitigated by a PM schedule, by condition monitoring, by
modifications, or by all these methods.
Mitigation information can only be specified if the RCM template has a status of Unfinished
and has failure mode records defined.
1. Select Equipment > Setup > RCM Templates.
2. Select the RCM template for which to define mitigation actions, and then click the RCM
Failure Mitigation tab.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

145 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization - Specify the organization associated with the mitigation.
Failure Mode - Specify the failure mode for the mitigation.
Mitigation Type - Specify the type of mitigation.
Mitigated Probability - Specify the probability of the risk after being mitigated. The
system will recalculate the Risk Priority Number (RPN) and populate the new Risk
Level.
Mitigation Applied - Select this check box to indicate that the mitigation is applied. The
system will update the matching failure mode on the RCM tab of the template and
update the Risk Priority Number (RPN), and possibly that of the template itself.
Note - Optionally, specify a note for this mitigation.
PM Schedule - Optionally, specify the PM Schedule to associate with the mitigation.
Perform Every - Specify the frequency for the selected PM Schedule.
You can also add a Maintenance Pattern or a PM Plan as part of the mitigation. You can
also add a project or a case, for example if a modification is required, and an Aspect if
condition based monitoring (inspections) may be required. These fields are optional and
hidden on this tab.
4. Click Submit.

Associating equipment classes with RCM templates
Associate equipment classes, categories, and specific equipment codes to RCM templates.
This affects the list of templates that the user can import from on the equipment screens.
1. Select Equipment > Setup > RCM Templates.
2. Select the RCM template for which to define mitigation actions, and then click the
Equipment Classes tab.
3. Specify this information:
Class - Specify the equipment class to associate with the RCM template. If you specify
the Class, the system protects the Equipment field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

146 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Category - Specify the equipment category to associate with the RCM template. If you
specify the Category , the system protects the Equipment field and defaults the Class
field.
Equipment - Specify the equipment to associate with the RCM template. If you specify
the Equipment, the system protects the Class and Category fields.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing RCM templates usage
View on which equipment and RCM templates the template header has been imported.
1. Select Equipment > Setup > RCM Templates.
2. Select the RCM template for which to view usage, and then click the Where Used tab.
3. View where the RCM template is used.

Associating service codes with equipment
To associate service codes with equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
• Equipment > Assets Healthcare
• Equipment > Properties Healthcare
• Equipment > Systems Healthcare
• Equipment > Work Orders Healhcare
• Equipment > Facilities

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

147 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Rooms
• Equipment > Vehicles
2. Select the equipment with which to associate service codes, and then click the Service
Codes tab.
3. Click Add Service Code.
4. Specify the one or more service codes to associate with the equipment.
5. Select the Apply Service Code to Children check box to apply the service code to all
of the children of the equipment.
6. Select the Skip this Level check box to not associate the service code to the
equipment on this level.
7. Click Submit.

Associating suppliers with equipment
To associate suppliers that service equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
2. Select the equipment with which to associate suppliers, and then click the Suppliers
tab.
3. Click Add Suppliers.
4. Specify a supplier to associate with the equipment.
5. Select the Apply Supplier to Children check box to apply the supplier to all of the
children of the equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

148 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Select the Skip this Level check box to not associate the supplier to the equipment on
this level.
7. Click Submit.

Viewing suppliers and services associated with equipment
View the suppliers and their associated services for equipment, and exclude a service from a
supplier if that service is not available from that supplier for that equipment.
1. Select one of these options:.
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Locations
• Equipment > Assets Healthcare
• Equipment > Properties Healthcare
• Equipment > Systems Healthcare
• Equipment > Facilities
• Equipment > Rooms
• Equipment > Vehicles
2. Select the equipment for which to view suppliers and their associated services, and then
click the Supplier Service Codes tab.
3. View the suppliers and their services.
4. Select the Exclude check box to exclude the supplier and service combination for that
equipment.
5. Click Submit.

Transferring equipment between organizations

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

149 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Transfer equipment between organizations within your company if you use multi-organization
security.
You can only transfer equipment records with a system Status of Installed. You cannot
transfer equipment records with any other Status. In addition, you cannot transfer any
equipment record that meets the following criteria:
• It is flagged as Out of Service.
• It is associated with a change notice.
• It has work orders with a system Status of Work Requested or Released.
• It has work orders with a system Status of Bypassed or Awaiting Execution and for
which there are open purchase orders, purchase requisitions, or items being held in
store.
• It has a parent record within an equipment hierarchy.
• It has a child record that has a second parent record.
• It has a child record that belongs to a different organization.
• It has non-superseded PM work orders and PM Revision Control is On.
• It has a child equipment record that already exists in the new organization.
• It already exists in the new organization, but its children do not.
• It already exists in the new organization with a system Status of Awaiting Purchase,
Installed, In Store.
You can transfer an equipment record that has child records in an equipment
hierarchy; however, the child equipment records must meet the same criteria as noted
above.

Understanding equipment transfer
See the following list of processing rules that the system follows when an equipment record is
transferred between organizations:
• The system maintains a record of the equipment in the originating organization with a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

150 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system Status of Withdrawn, flags the equipment record as Out of Service, and
automatically populates the equipment record’s Transfer Date.
• The system transfers child equipment records and retains the equipment hierarchy in
the new organization.
• The system creates an event record of the transfer in both the originating organization,
for which the event type is ATT, and new organization, for which the event type is ATF.
The system maintains the event history of the equipment record in the originating
organization, and then copies the event history to the equipment record in the new
organization.
• The system automatically converts currency-based fields from the currency of the
originating organization to the currency of the new organization if an exchange rate
exists.
• The system completes any PM work orders associated with the transferred equipment
that have a system Status of Awaiting Execution or Bypassed. The system adds a
comment to the work order to indicate it was automatically completed because of the
organization transfer.
• The system automatically copies depreciation setup data defined on the Depreciation
page of the Assets, Positions, or Systems form, and then recalculates the depreciation
of the equipment record within the new organization based on the Commission Date of
the equipment record.
• The system removes the transferred equipment record from any shutdown lists on
which it is referenced.
The system automatically copies equipment information defined on the Record View page of
the Assets, Positions, or Systems form to the equipment record within the new organization.
The system only copies information that is valid within the equipment record’s new
organization. If the equipment record contains information that is not valid within the new
organization, the system completes the transfer without copying the invalid information.
See the following list of additional data that is copied during the transfer if applicable:
• Addresses
• Calibration data (except for Next Cal. Due)

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

151 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Comments
• Custom Fields
• Depreciation setup data
• Documents
• Equipment Details for Monitored Equipment
• Logical Meters
• Parts Associated
• Permits
• Physical Meters that belong to common organizations
• Test Point Data
• Translations
• Warranties
The system does not automatically copy all data associated with an equipment record during
the transfer. See the following list of data that the system does not copy to the equipment
record within the new organization:
• Account Details
• Electronic signatures
• Electronic records
• Audit trail information
• Preventive Maintenance records
• Inspections data
• Physical Meters that belong to specific organizations

Transferring equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

152 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To transfer equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment record to transfer, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Right-click, and then select Transfer Equipment. The system automatically populates
the Equipment Details and the Current Org. Details.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which to transfer the equipment. The system
enables Status and automatically populates Department, Part, Cost Code, and
Manufacturer if the information defined on the equipment record is valid within the new
Organization.
5. Specify the Status, Department, Part, Cost Code, and Manufacturer.
6. Click Transfer.

Creating equipment configurations
Create equipment configurations to use as equipment templates. After creating an equipment
configuration, use it to quickly define assets, positions, and systems that require the same
information as is contained on the equipment configuration template.
To create equipment configurations:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment Configuration - Specify a unique code identifying the equipment
configuration, and then specify a description in the adjacent field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

153 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Status - Select the equipment configuration status.
Organization - Specify the organization to which the equipment configuration belongs if
you use multi-organization security.
Department - Specify the equipment's department.
Class - Specify the class of the equipment.
Category - Specify the category for the equipment.
Cost Code - Specify the equipment’s cost code.
Equipment Value - Specify the value of the equipment (generally, purchase price).
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the equipment.
Meter Unit - Specify the meter unit of the equipment to define with this equipment
configuration.
Criticality - Specify a criticality code to indicate the relative importance of the
equipment to the overall production of goods or services for your organization.
Dormant Start - Specify the date on which the dormant period for any PM work orders
for the equipment begins.
Dormant End - Specify the date on which the dormant period for any PM work orders
for the equipment ends.
Reuse Dormant Period - Select to use the same specified dormant period for any PM
work orders for the equipment on an annual basis.
Production - Select if the equipment is used in production.
Safety - Select to observe safety precautions when working with this equipment.
cGMP - Select to indicate that the equipment is subject to cGMP standards.
Prevent non-PM WO Completion - Select to prevent non-PM WO completion.
System Level - Specify the EMRS codes identifying the system level for the equipment.
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS codes identifying the assembly level for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

154 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equipment.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS codes identifying the component level for the
equipment.
Vehicle - Select if the equipment is a vehicle.
Component Location - Specify the component location for the equipment.
Alias - Specify an alias for the equipment.
Out of Service - Select to prevent the equipment configuration from being displayed in
the lookups.
Manufacturer - Specify the equipment's manufacturer.
Model - Specify the equipment's model number.
Model Revision - Specify the equipment’s model revision number.
Part - Specify the part to associate with this equipment configuration. The system
automatically populates Part Org. You cannot specify a part if Equipment Type is
position or system.
Equipment Type - Specify the equipment object type for the equipment.
Equipment Prefix - Specify a unique prefix code for the equipment.
Equipment Suffix - Specify a unique suffix code for the equipment.
Sequence Length - Specify the sequence length that will be used when Auto Number
is unselected.
Equipment Status - Specify the default status you want generated with the equipment.
Create as Specific - Select to indicate that the organization of the equipment during the
generation process will be set to a specific organization.
Auto Number - Select to have the system automatically assign the next available
equipment number as the new equipment number. Sample Code is automatically
cleared.
Commissioning WO - Specify the commissioning WO.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

155 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Key 1 through Key 6 - Specify additional information that can be used to identify the
configuration if you use the data collection interfaces.
Equipment Length - Specify length of the equipment.
Equipment Length UOM - Select the unit of measure (UOM) for the length of the
equipment.
Linear Reference UOM - Select the unit of measure (UOM) for the linear reference.
Reference Precision - Select the reference precision for the linear reference.
Geographical Reference - Specify the geographical reference for the linear reference
Rental Equipment - Select to indicate that the equipment is rental equipment.
Rental Template - Specify the template to associate with the rental equipment.
Contract Equipment - Select to indicate that the equipment is contract equipment.
Contract Template - Specify the template to associate with the contract equipment.
Customer - Specify the customer code.
Calendar Group - Specify the calendar group for the equipment.
Penalty Factor - Specify the penalty factor for the equipment.
Minimum Penalty - Specify the minimum penalty amount that must be met before a
penalty can be deducted from the maintenance fee.
Service Delivery Matrix - Select to restrict work orders for the equipment to a predefined service delivery matrix.
Replacement Value - Specify the current replacement value for the equipment.
Utility Bill Level - Select to mark the equipment as having capabilities to record utility
bills.
GAS Tracked - Select to set the equipment as GAS (Global Asset Sustainability)
Tracked.
Floor Area - Specify the floor area, and then specify the unit of measure for the floor

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

156 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

area.
Estimated Revenue - Specify the estimated revenue the piece of equipment can
generate.
Region - Specify the region for the equipment.
Primary Use - Specify the primary use for the equipment.
Year Built - Specify the year built for the equipment.
Service Life (years) - Specify the service life of the equipment.
Lock Reliability Ranking Values - Select to lock the reliability ranking values for the
equipment on the Reliability Survey tab of the Equipment screen.
Reliability Ranking - Specify the reliability ranking code for the equipment.
Target Power Factor - Specify the target power factor that has been determined for the
equipment.
Target Peak Demand (W) - Specify the target peak demand in watts for the equipment.
Start Billing Period - Specify the date that the billing period begins. The Peak Demand
measurements are relevant after this date.
Bill Every - Specify the length of the interval of time to pass before the system expects
the next bill, and then select the unit of measure in the adjacent field
Eff. Loss 1% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 1 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 2% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 2 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 3% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 3 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 4% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 4 percent imbalance.
Eff. Loss 5% Phase Imb. - Specify the efficiency loss per 5 percent imbalance.
Performance Manager - Specify the energy performance manager who is responsible
for the equipment.
Electric Sub-meter Interval - Specify the length of the interval of time in minutes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

157 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

indicating how frequently the electric sub-meter is read.
Electric Usage Threshold - Specify the current in amps above which the equipment is
considered running or on.
Revision Reason - Specify the reason for revision.
4. Click Save Record.

Associating child equipment with equipment configurations
Associate child equipment with equipment configurations if you want to break down the
configuration structure of the parent. Child equipment records may also have children of their
own. Create equipment configurations before associating child equipment with equipment
configurations. If the equipment configuration status is not Unfinished, you cannot associate
child equipment with equipment configurations.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations.
2. Select the equipment configuration for which to associate child equipment, and then
click the Configurations Associated tab.
3. Click Add Configuration.
4. Specify this information:
Configuration - Specify the equipment configuration.
System Level - Specify the EMRS codes identifying the system level for the equipment
configuration.
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS codes identifying the assembly level for the
equipment configuration.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS codes identifying the component level for the
equipment configuration
Component Location - Specify the component location for the equipment.
5. Select the Use Approved Revision check box to indicate that the current approved
revision should always be used for the equipment configuration.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

158 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Select the Dependent check box to generate the child as a dependent of the parent.
7. Select the Cost Roll-up check box to roll costs collected for equipment up the tree and
to have the charges applied to the parents of the equipment.
8. Click Submit.

Viewing equipment configuration hierarchies
View structure details for equipment configuration hierarchies. The structure will display
equipment configuration records, component locations, and system, assembly, and
component levels. Select equipment configuration or part records within the hierarchy to
retrieve the forms within the system.
To view equipment configuration hierarchies:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations.
2. Select the record for which to view the equipment configuration hierarchy, and then click
the Structure tab.
3. View the equipment configuration hierarchy.

Defining PM Schedules for equipment configurations
Define PM Schedule details to attach to equipment generated based on the equipment
configuration. The equipment configuration header record system status must be Unfinished
to define PM Schedules for equipment configurations.
To define PM schedules for equipment configurations:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration Equipment Configuration.
2. Select the equipment for which to define PM schedules for equipment configurations,
and then click the PM Schedules tab.
3. Click Add PM.
4. Specify the PM Schedule, PM Type, WO Class, Dormant Start, Dormant End, and
Test Point Set.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

159 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Specify this information:
Perform Every - Specify the length of time to elapse before the system releases the PM
work order, and then select the unit of measure for the PM period in the adjacent field.
Meter Interval - Specify the length of the interval and the unit of measure for the first
meter that prompts the release of the PM work order on usage of the equipment.
Meter #2 Interval - Specify the length of the interval and the unit of measure for the
second meter that prompts the release of the PM work order on usage of the
equipment.
Perform On - Specify the week of the month on which to perform the work on the
equipment.
Perform On Day - Specify the day of the week on which to perform the work on the
equipment.
6. Select the Use PM Schedule Setup check box to use the PM Schedule setup.
7. Select the Reuse Dormant Period check box to use the same specified dormant period
for the PM on a yearly basis. If you select Reuse Dormant Period, the system
automatically updates the specified Dormant Start and Dormant End dates after the
dormant period has elapsed.
8. Click Submit.

Associating maintenance patterns with equipment configurations
Associate maintenance patterns with equipment configurations. The equipment configuration
header record system status must be Unfinished to define PM Schedules for equipment
configurations.
To associate maintenance patterns with equipment configurations:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations.
2. Select the equipment configuration for which to associate maintenance patterns, and
then click the Maintenance Patterns tab.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

160 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Maintenance Pattern - Specify the maintenance pattern to associate with the
equipment. The system automatically populates the maintenance pattern description
and Maintenance Pattern Org.
Initial Sequence - Specify the sequence number that the pattern will use to create the
first work order.
Test Point Set - Specify the test point set for the calibration of the equipment.
Dormant Start and Dormant End - Specify the date on which the dormant period for
the equipment begins and the date on which it ends.
4. Select the Reuse Dormant Period check box to use the same specified dormant period
for the equipment on a yearly basis.
5. Click Submit.

Defining logical meters for equipment configurations
If the equipment configuration status is not Unfinished, you cannot define logical meters for
equipment configurations.
To define logical meters for equipment configurations:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations.
2. Select the equipment configuration with which to link a meter, and then click the Meters
tab.
3. Click Add Meter.
4. Specify this information:
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the logical meter.
Type of Meter - Select one of the meter types:

Option

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

161 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Standalone

Select so that the equipment will not receive meter
readings based on its established parent equipment
meters of the same UOM, nor will it send meter
readings to any of its established child equipment
meters of the same UOM.

Parent

Select to send the equipment’s meter readings down
to child equipment. If you have parent/child
relationships among equipment, specify meter
readings for the parent piece of equipment only when
adding meter readings.

Child

Select to enable the child equipment to receive usage
information from a higher-level piece of equipment.
The child equipment’s unit of measure (UOM) must
match that of the parent.

Parent & Child

Select to receive meter readings based on entries
made for its parent equipment meters of the same
UOM, and it will send meter readings to its children.

5. Click Submit.

Adding calendar-based warranty coverage to equipment
configurations
If the equipment configuration status is not Unfinished, you cannot add calendar-based
warranty coverage.
To manage warranties from the perspective of the warranty record, select
Equipment > Warranty > Warranties.
To add calendar-based warranty coverage to equipment configurations:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

162 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the equipment configuration for which to add a warranty, and then click the
Warranties tab. The system automatically populates Date Entered and Entered By.
3. Click Add Warranty Coverage.
4. Specify this information:
Warranty - Specify the warranty document to associate with the equipment
configuration. The system automatically populates the warranty description, Duration
UOM, Threshold UOM, Manufacturer, and Supplier.
Coverage Type - Select Calendar to indicate that the warranty is based on number of
days used.
Duration - Specify the length of the warranty in days.
Threshold - Specify the number of days prior to expiration at which the system should
notify you that the warranty is about to expire.
Active - Select to indicate that the warranty is currently active.
5. Click Submit.

Adding usage-based warranty coverage to equipment
configurations
If the equipment configuration status is not Unfinished, you cannot add usage-based warranty
coverage.
To manage warranties from the perspective of the warranty record, select
Equipment > Warranty > Warranties.
To add usage-based warranty coverage to equipment configurations:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations.
2. Select the equipment configuration for which to add a warranty, and then click the
Warranties tab. The system automatically populates Date Entered and Entered By.
3. Click Add Warranty Coverage.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

163 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Warranty - Specify the warranty document to associate with the equipment
configuration. The system automatically populates the warranty description, Duration,
Threshold, Manufacturer, and Supplier.
Coverage Type - Select Usage to indicate that the warranty is based on actual usage.
Active - Specify to indicate that the warranty is currently active.
Duration UOM - Specify the usage length of the warranty and the usage unit of
measure.
Threshold UOM - Specify the amount of usage quantity prior to expiration at which the
system should notify you that the warranty is about to expire.
5. Click Submit.

Generating equipment using equipment configurations
Generate equipment quickly in a central location using equipment configurations.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Generation.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Session description, Organization, Configuration, Equipment
Department, Commission Date, Equipment Status, and Store.
4. Specify this information:
Generate Count - Specify the number of equipment you want to generate from the
selected configuration.
5. Select the All Specific check box to indicate that the equipment will be generated in the
specific organization of the session. If All Specific is not selected, the equipment will be
generated in the organization of the selected configurations and its children.
6. Specify the Equipment Location, Equipment Cost Code, Equipment Assigned To,
Bin, and Lot.
7. Optionally, select the Equipment Parent lookup to define an existing parent equipment
for the equipment being generated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

164 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

8. Optionally, select the Dependent check box to define the equipment being generated
dependent upon the selected Equipment Parent.
9. Optionally, select the Cost Roll-up check box to define the cost roll-up from the
equipment being generated to the selected Equipment Parent.
10. Select the Top Level Only check box to generate equipment records for the top-level of
the equipment configuration structure only.
11. Select the All Dependent check box to generate an equipment structure where all of
the children are dependent on their parent.
12. Select the All Cost Roll-up check box to generate an equipment structure where all of
the children roll up their costs to their parent.
13. Select the Create Commissioning WO check box to create a commissioning work
order.
14. Specify the Commissioning WO Status, Commissioning WO Department,
Commissioning WO Location, Commissioning WO Cost Code, Commissioning
WO Assigned To, and Commissioning WO Assigned By.
15. Specify this information:
Due Date Reference - Specify a due date to offset the due date for the equipment. For
example, if the PM frequency is 1 month, the first due date will be one month after the
Due Date Reference.
16. Select the Comments check box to copy the comments added to the equipment
configuration.
17. Select the Documents check box to copy the documents attached to the equipment
configuration.
18. Select the Custom Fields check box to copy the custom fields added to the equipment
configuration.
19. Select the PM Schedules check box to copy the PM schedules added to the equipment
configuration.
20. Select the Maintenance Patterns check box to copy the maintenance patterns added
to the equipment configuration.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

165 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

21. Select the Safety check box to copy the safety data added to the equipment
configuration.
22. Select the Permits check box to copy the permits added to the equipment configuration.
23. Select the Meters check box to copy the meters added to the equipment configuration.
24. Select the Parts Associated check box to copy the parts associated with the equipment
configuration.
25. Select the Warranties check box to copy the warranties added to the equipment
configuration.
26. Select the Depreciation check box to copy the depreciation data added to the
equipment configuration.
27. Select the Calibration check box to copy the calibration data added to the equipment
configuration.
28. Select the Test Points check box to copy the test points added to the equipment
configuration.
29. Click Save Record. The system automatically populates Created By, Date Created,
and Updated By.

Defining equipment details for equipment generation
Define details for the equipment on all levels in the structure. Details relate to equipment
attributes such as department, cost code, and the person assigned to the equipment. You can
assign different attributes to the children and the parent equipment.
To define equipment details for equipment generation:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Generation.
2. Select the record for which to define equipment details, and then click the Details tab.
3. Specify the Equipment Location, Equipment Department, Equipment Cost Code,
and Equipment Assigned To.
4. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

166 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Create/Refresh Preview if the tab is empty.

Previewing equipment generations
Preview a list of equipment that will be created during the equipment generation session.
After verifying the equipment data, click Generate Equipment to have the record added to
the database.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Generation.
2. Select the record for which to preview for the equipment generation, and then click the
Preview tab.
3. View the equipment data.
4. Click Create/Refresh Preview if the tab is empty.
5. Click Generate Equipment.

Defining and managing change notices
Vendors use change notices to notify their customers of possible defects in their equipment or
to recommend changes to previously documented maintenance plans. Change notices can
be recorded in the system once they are issued from the vendor. Identify equipment affected
by the change notices, reference change notices on work orders, and track transactions and
events associated with change notices.

Defining change notices
Define change notices, set up selection criteria for the assets to which to associate the
change notice.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Change Notices.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the change notice belongs if you use
multi-organization security.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

167 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Change Notice - Specify a unique number identifying the change notice, and then
provide a description of the reason for the change notice in the adjacent field.
Status - Select the status for the change notice.
You can only create change notices in an Unfinished status.
Class - Specify the class of the change notice.
Manufacturer - Specify the manufacturer of the assets affected by the change notice.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the dates during which the manufacturer repairs or
replaces assets affected by the change notice.
Close Date is automatically populated when Status changes to Closed.
4. Select the Filer Assets by Manufacturer check box to include only equipment with the
specified manufacturer on the list of equipment for the change notice.
5. Click Save Record.

Adding lines for change notices
Details on this form specify which assets to be included on a change notice. You can specify
ranges for asset numbers, serial numbers, and part numbers.
To add lines for change notices:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Change Notices.
2. Select the change notice for which to add a line, and then click the Lines tab.
3. Click Add Line.
4. Select one of these options:

Option

Description

From Asset To Asset

Specify the starting number and ending number for
the range of assets to include.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

168 of 2039

From Serial Number To Serial
Number

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the starting number and ending number for
the range of serial numbers to include.

5. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part number for the part affected by the change notice. The system
automatically populates Part Org.
6. Click Submit.

Viewing assets for change notices
View a list of assets associated with a specific change notice.
To view assets for change notices:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Change Notices.
2. Select the change notice for which to view assets, and then click the Assets tab.
3. View the asset information.

Defining locations for change notices
Change notice locations filter the types of equipment that can be added to change notices. If
Location is populated, assets are restricted to valid locations.
To define locations for change notices:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Change Notices.
2. Select the change notice for which to define locations, and then click the Locations tab.
3. Click Add Location.
4. Specify this information:
Location - Specify the location for which assets can be included. The system
automatically populates the location description.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

169 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Understanding Energy Star
Energy Star is a joint program between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and
the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to monitor and improve energy efficiency efforts.
EAM works with the customer by sending the customer's energy consumption data to Energy
Star's Portfolio Manager system (PM) via web services of the Automated Benchmarking
System (ABS). The customer receives Energy Star ratings in return from PM through the
ABS.
EAM helps commercial businesses monitor energy efficiency ratings through four of eight
total web services through which data is exchanged with the EPA:
1. Get Pending Authorizations
EAM receives ID information on the customer's facilities and meters.
2. Confirm Pending Authorizations
Complete mapping of the customer's EAM IDs to facilities and meter IDs in PM.
3. Manage Meter Information
Send energy consumption data from EAM to PM.
4. Rating Exchange Service
Retrieve Energy Star Ratings for historical 12 month periods.

Setting up Energy Star
Map Portfolio Manager facilities and meters with HxGN EAM facilities and meters to collect
and transmit the correct energy consumption data to Portfolio Manager through the
Automated Benchmarking System (ABS). ABS will send all facility and/or meter data
previously defined in PM to HxGN EAM.
Next, select the HxGN EAM Equipment ID or HxGN EAM Meter ID for each facility or meter
within that facility. Once the system matches some or all of the facilities/meters to their PM
counterparts, click Confirm Pending Authorizations to initiate the web service message

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

170 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

through ABS to PM.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Energy Star > Energy Star Setup.
2. Click Get Pending Authorizations.
3. Specify the Energy Start Customer Account ID.
The Energy Star Customer Account ID is the same as the Portfolio Manager
username used to log in to Portfolio Manager.
4. Click Retrieve Customer Account ID, and then specify the User ID and Password to
retrieve the Customer Account ID.
5. Click Submit.
The pop-up window is closed, a Get Pending Authorization message is sent to ABS by
web service, and a response is received from ABS by web service.
The Energy Star Setup page is shown.
6. Specify the EAM Building ID and EAM Meter ID.
You must indicate that this facility is Utility Bill Level in the Facility Details
section of the asset record.
7. Click Submit. The system matches the records.
8. Click Confirm Pending Authorizations. The Customer Lookup pop-up window is
opened.
9. Specify the Energy Start Customer Account ID.
10. Click Submit.

Viewing Energy Star ratings
The Energy Star Portfolio Manager system hosts the EPA national energy performance rating
system. PM stores customer information on buildings, space utilization, and energy meters.
HxGN EAM utilizes web services to provide PM with energy consumption data through the
ABS. PM calculates an Energy Star Rating or value from 1-100, viewable on the Energy Star
Ratings tab on the Equipment screen. The higher the value, the more efficient and less

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

171 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

pollutant a facility is.
On this form, view Energy Star ratings and associated information on energy consumption
and greenhouse gas emissions.
Energy Star's service level commitment states that the response may take up to 24
hours for asynchronous messages to be viewable; however, the response time from Energy
Star may be considerably less.
1. Select Equipment > Assets.
2. Click the Energy Star Ratings tab.
3. Click Get Energy Star Ratings.
4. Specify the Start Date and End Date.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing Energy Star messages
View and purge asynchronous messages sent to the Energy Star Portfolio Manager (PM)
through the Automated Benchmarking System (ABS). View messages acknowledged by ABS
with a transaction ID.
To view Energy Star messages:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Energy Star > Energy Star Message
Viewer.
2. Select the transaction for which to view messages, and then choose one of the options:

Option

Description

To view messages

Click View Message. The system displays the
information.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

172 of 2039

To purge message records

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Click Purge Messages. Select the time period from
which to purge messages, and then click Submit.

Printing the Energy Star ratings chart report
Print the Energy Star ratings chart report.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Click the Energy Star Ratings Chart tab.
3. Specify the Start Date and End Date.
4. Click Submit.
5. Click Print.

Designing energy consumption for equipment
Design energy consumption information for equipment that are flagged as GAS Tracked.
Record the equipment manufacturer’s energy efficiency specifications to indicate the level of
energy efficiency the equipment should maintain while operating when using specific energy
commodities, such as electricity, gas, etc.
You can also link equipment with a utility bill source to tie the equipment to the utility billing
information/rates for the utility bill source, such as a building in which the equipment is
located.
The link between the equipment and utility bill source established on the Design
Consumption page is simply a link between the equipment related to energy consumption
and is not a structural link as defined in an equipment hierarchy.
1. Select one of these options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

173 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to add design consumption, and then click the Design
Consumption tab. Date Effective is automatically populated with the current date and
Date Expired with 12/31/2199. You can modify Date Effective as necessary.
3. Specify this information:
Utility Bill Source - Specify the utility bill source to associate with the equipment. The
Utility Bill Source represents the billing structure established to calculate a daily rate for
utility/energy consumption for invoice vouchers. See Defining utility bills for invoice
vouchers.
If Utility Bill Level is not selected for the equipment, then a Utility Bill Source
is required.
Commodity - Specify the commodity to associate with the equipment. The Commodity
UOM is populated from the selected Commodity.
If a record is inserted and the Date Effective and Date Expired of the new record
overlap with the Date Effective and Date Expired of another record with the same
Commodity, the Date Expired of the new record is updated with the oldest Date
Effective to avoid having an overlap. See Understanding effective and expiration date
calculations for design consumption
Design Usage UOM - Specify the unit of measure to be used for the energy
consumption design. The Design Consumption Rate UOM is populated in the format
Commodity UOM/Design Usage UOM.
Default Load Factor - Specify the number to default for the maximum factor for the
load ranges. This value is used as the default when specifying records on the Actual
Consumption page. Range-1 Low is automatically populated.
Range-1 High - Specify the maximum load range for range 1.
Range-1 Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the
equipment. This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

174 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Usage UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity
per hour.
Range-2 Low - Specify the minimum load range for range 2.
Range-2 High - Specify the maximum load range for range 2.
Range-2 Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the
equipment. This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design
Usage UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity
per hour.
Range-3 Low - Specify the minimum load range for range 3.
Range-3 High - Specify the maximum load range for range 3.
Range-3 Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the
equipment. This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design
Usage UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity
per hour.
Range-4 Low - Specify the minimum load range for range 4.
Range-4 High - Specify the maximum load range for range 4.
Range-4 Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the
equipment. This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design
Usage UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity
per hour.
Range-5 Low - Specify the minimum load range for range 5.
Range-5 High - Specify the maximum load range for range 5.
Range-5 Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the
equipment. This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design
Usage UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity
per hour.
Range-6 Low - Specify the minimum load range for range 6.
Range-6 High - Specify the maximum load range for range 6.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

175 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Range-6 Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the
equipment. This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design
Usage UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity
per hour.
Range-7 Low - Specify the minimum load range for range 7.
Range-7 High - Specify the maximum load range for range 7.
Range-7 Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the
equipment. This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design
Usage UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity
per hour.
Range-8 Low - Specify the minimum load range for range 8.
Range-8 High - Specify the maximum load range for range 8.
Range-8 Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the
equipment. This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design
Usage UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity
per hour.
Range-9 Low - Specify the minimum load range for range 9.
Range-9 High - Specify the maximum load range for range 9.
Range-9 Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the
equipment. This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design
Usage UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity
per hour.
Range-10 Low - Specify the minimum load range for range 10.
Range-10 High - Specify the maximum load range for range 10.
Range-10 Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the
equipment. This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design
Usage UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity
per hour.
Design Consumption Rate - Specify the energy consumption rate for the equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

176 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This indicates the amount of the commodity that is consumed in the Design Usage
UOM. For example, an equipment can be designed to use 10KW of electricity per hour.
4. Click Submit.
Setting the GDRV installation parameter to FULL enables the purging and
recalculating of all energy efficiency data, including actual energy consumption records.
However, if you are updating a design consumption record, updated data on the Actual
Consumption tab of the Assets, Positions, or Systems forms is not displayed. See
Entering actual energy consumption information for equipment.

Understanding effective and expiration date calculations for
design consumption
When entering multiple design consumption records on the Design Consumption page of
the Assets, Positions, or Systems forms, the Commodity specified for a record is tied to a
Date Effective and Date Expired. This association establishes the valid date ranges for the
energy efficiency specifications established for the Commodity. By necessity, these date
ranges must be flexible in the ways in which they connect the equipment and the
Commodities to which they are linked. Therefore, if you must specify multiple design
consumption records on the Design Consumption page for same Commodity, the system
must calculate the date ranges for Date Effective and Date Expired based on the existing
record(s) and the Date Effective specified for an additional record when there is an overlap
between the Date Effective of the existing record and the Date Effective of the additional
record(s). Likewise, the same is true for the expiration dates of the existing and additional
records. See the following examples for more information.
Example 1

In this example, there are two existing design consumption records, and you are inserting a
new record. At the time of insert, the date information for the design consumption records is
as follows:

Existing record one

Date Effective

Date Expired

01/01/2006

06/30/2006

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

177 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Existing record two

07/01/2006

12/31/2199

Record to be inserted

01/01/2007

12/31/2199

Date Expired is protected. The system defaults 12/31/2199 as the Date Expired for
the record to be inserted.
The record to be inserted shares the same Commodity as the existing records, and the Date
Effective of the record to be inserted overlaps with the Date Effective and Date Expired of
the existing records. The system locates the existing record with the same Commodity based
on the Date Effective and updates the Date Expired for the second existing record with a
new Date Effective as follows:

Date Effective

E 01/01/2006

Date Expired

06/30/2006

xi
st
in
g
re
c
or
d
o
n
e

E 07/01/2006
xi
st
in
g
re

12/31/2006

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

178 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

c
or
d
t
w
o

R 01/01/2007
e
c
or
d
in
s
er
te
d

12/31/2199

Example 2

In this example, there are two existing design consumption records, and you are inserting a
new record. At the time of insert, the date information for the design consumption records is
as follows:

Date Effective

E 01/01/2006
xi
st
in
g
re
c
or
d
o

Date Expired

12/31/2006

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

179 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

n
e

E 01/01/2007
xi
st
in
g
re
c
or
d
t
w
o

12/31/2199

R 06/01/2006
e
c
or
d

12/31/2199

to
b
e
in
s
er
te
d

Date Expired is protected. The system defaults 12/31/2199 as the Date Expired for
the record to be inserted.
The record to be inserted shares the same Commodity as the existing records, and the Date
Effective of the record to be inserted overlaps with the Date Effective of the existing records.
The system locates the existing record with the same Commodity based on the Date

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

180 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Effective and updates the Date Expired of existing record one and the Date Effective of
existing record two and the data inserted is as follows:

Date Effective

Date Expired

E 01/01/2006
xi
st
in
g
re
c
or
d
o
n
e

05/14/2006

E 01/01/2007
xi
st
in
g
re
c
or
d
t
w
o

12/31/2199

R 06/01/2006
e
c
or

12/31/2006

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

181 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

d
in
s
er
te
d

Entering actual energy consumption information for equipment
Enter details related to the actual energy consumption levels for equipment that are flagged
as GAS Tracked. The energy consumption information is recorded to track the actual energy
usage levels maintained during a given time period while operating equipment using specific
types of energy commodities, such as electricity, gas, etc.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to add actual consumption, and then click the Actual
Consumption tab. Reading Date is automatically populated with the current date.
If you clear Reading Date, Actual Usage UOM and Actual Consumption
UOM are automatically cleared.
3. Specify this information:
Commodity - Specify the commodity to associate with the actual consumption reading.
Actual Consumption UOM is populated from the selected Commodity and the Actual
Usage UOM from the Design Usage UOM on the Design Consumption page. See
Designing energy consumption for equipment.
When the Commodity is updated for the actual consumption reading, Actual
Consumption UOM, Actual Usage UOM, and Actual Consumption Rate UOM are
automatically populated by searching for a date range on the Design Consumption
page.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

182 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Actual Consumption - Specify the actual energy consumed.
If Utility Bill Level is not selected for the equipment on the Record View page,
you must specify a value for Actual Consumption. If Utility Bill Level is selected, the
actual consumption from the utility bill is used when generating the asset sustainability
calculations.
Actual Usage - Specify the actual usage. This indicates the amount time that was used
to consume the value specified for Actual Consumption.
Load Factor - Specify the load factor for this actual consumption record, overriding the
default value defined on the Design Consumption page.
4. Click Save Record.

Tracking asset depreciation
Depreciation enables you to calculate equipment depreciation expense, which is the value of
the wear and deterioration of a piece of equipment based on an accounting period and the
useful life of the piece of equipment.
Depreciation costs do not roll up within an equipment hierarchy. Maintain individual
depreciation records for all assets, positions, or systems for which you need to maintain
depreciation data.
There are four depreciation methods available for your equipment.
Create depreciation types based on the agency to which the depreciation data must be
reported. For example, create depreciation types for generally accepted accounting practices
(GAAP) and/or a local, federal, state, or international government agency.
Depreciation types are linked to the DETP entity for which you must define your
depreciation type codes. Contact your system administrator for more information.
For all depreciation methods and types, depreciation data can be calculated based on months
or fiscal years of the asset’s organization. The process begins with calculating the
depreciation of a piece of equipment on its Commission Date and continues calculating the
equipment’s depreciation until the piece of equipment reaches its Sold/Scrap Date or its end
of life date.
An asset's end of life date is calculated based on the following equation:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

183 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

End of Life Date = Commission Date + (Est. Useful Life – 1 day)
Specify the Commission Date and Sold/Scrap Date on the Assets, Positions, or Systems
form.
Specify the Est. Useful Life on the Depreciation page of the Assets form.
See Entering depreciation data.
Base depreciation calculations on an estimated useful life of days, weeks, months, quarters,
or years. Regardless of the unit of measure you select, a daily depreciation expense upon
which all depreciation and book value calculations are based is calculated. The annual
depreciation expense is calculated based on the depreciation method you select, and then a
daily depreciation expense is calculated.
See Understanding depreciation methods and daily calculations.
Once a piece of equipment’s daily depreciation expense is calculated, periodic depreciation
expenses and book values can be calculated.
See Understanding periodic depreciation and book value calculations.

Understanding depreciation methods and daily calculations
Not all calendar years consist of 365 days because some are leap years that consist of 366
days. Therefore, a daily depreciation expense must be calculated upon which periodic
depreciation expense and book values are calculated.
The annual depreciation rate is calculated based on the depreciation method you select, and
then calculates the daily depreciation rate based on the following equation:
Daily Depreciation Rate = Annual Depreciation Rate / Number of Days
in the Year
Specify the depreciation method that the system should use to calculate the annual
depreciation expense on the Depreciation page of the Assets, Positions, or Systems form.
See Entering depreciation data.
Four asset depreciation methods are provided: Straight Line, Sum of Years Digits, Double
Declining Balance, and Units of Output.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

184 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The ASDEPTYP installation parameter determines the default depreciation method
for the system; however, you can also set the depreciation method on the organization or
equipment level. Setting the depreciation method at the organization level supersedes the
setting of the ASDEPTYP installation parameter. Setting the depreciation method at the
equipment level supersedes the setting of ASDEPTYP and/or the depreciation method
specified for the organization.

Calculating straight line depreciation
Straight Line depreciation, the most commonly used method, calculates depreciation based
on the principle that an asset loses an equal amount of value each fiscal year.
The system calculates annual Straight Line depreciation expense based on the following
equation:
(Original Value - Residual Value) / Estimated Useful Life = Annual
Depreciation Expense

Calculating sum of years digits depreciation
Sum of Years Digits depreciation is an accelerated depreciation method, which assumes that
assets incur greater depreciation during the early years of the asset's life.
To calculate the Sum of Years Digits depreciation, the system must first calculate the Sum of
Years Digits and the remaining years of life.
The system calculates the Sum of Years Digits using the following equation:
Est. Useful Life in Years x [(Est. Useful Life in Years + 1) / 2] =
Sum of Years Digits
Using this equation, the Sum of Years Digits for an asset with an expected useful life of five
years is calculated as follows:
5 years x [(5 years + 1) / 2] = 15 years
Quickly determine the Sum of Years Digits value by adding together the numbers
representing the years of an asset's useful life. For example, if an asset is expected to have a
useful life of five years, the digits representing that useful life are 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. To
determine the Sum of Years Digits value, add the digits: 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 = 15.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

185 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system determines an asset's remaining years of life based on its expected useful life.
For example, for an asset whose expected useful life is five years, the remaining years of life
is 5 for the first year, 4 for the second year, 3 for the third year, etc.
The system then calculates the Sum of Years Digits depreciation based on the following
equation:
(Original Value - Residual Value) x Remaining Years of Life / Sum of
Years Digits = Annual Depreciation Expense

Calculating double declining balance depreciation
Double Declining Balance depreciation is the most accelerated method of depreciation. Using
the Double Declining Balance method, an asset depreciates twice the rate of the Straight Line
depreciation method rate each year.
To calculate the Double Declining Balance depreciation, the system must first calculate the
annual Straight Line depreciation rate.
The system calculates the annualized Straight Line depreciation rate based on the following
equation:
1 / Est. Useful Life in Years = Annual Straight Line Depreciation
Rate
The system then calculates the Double Declining Balance depreciation expense based on the
following equation:
Book value x (2 x Annual Straight Line Depreciation Rate) = Annual
Depreciation Expense

Calculating units of output depreciation
The Units of Output method is also known as the productive output, units of production, or
units of activity method. It calculates depreciation based on equipment output during a period
of time, while considering the equipment’s estimated lifetime units of output. Companies
commonly use the Units of Output method when usage varies dramatically from period to
period.
The Units of Output method cannot project depreciation over the remaining asset life.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

186 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The Units of Output must be entered before the system can calculate period depreciation.
To calculate Units of Output depreciation, the system must calculate a depreciation cost per
unit based on this equation:
(Original Value – Residual Value) / Estimated Lifetime Output =
Depreciation Expense per Unit
The system then calculates the units of output depreciation expense for a period based on
this equation:
Depreciation Expense per Unit x Units of Output = Depreciation
Expense

Understanding periodic depreciation and book value calculations
Depreciation expenses are calculated based on a depreciation period, a generic term that
refers to an organization’s fiscal years or calendar month. Select to view depreciation
expenses based on the depreciation period you prefer.
See Viewing depreciation details.
To calculate an asset’s periodic depreciation expense and book value, the daily depreciation
expense of the asset must be calculated first.
See Understanding depreciation methods and daily calculations.
The number of days in the period must also be calculated before calculating an asset’s
periodic depreciation expense or book value.
When calculating the number of days in a period, the first and final day are included
in the tally. For example, the time between July 1, 2004 and July 2, 2004 is counted as 2
days.
For most periods of an asset’s life, the number of days in the period equals the number of
days in the calendar month or fiscal year defined for your organization. For example, if you
view depreciation expenses based on calendar month, the number of days in the period is 30
or 31. If you view depreciation expenses based on fiscal year and the fiscal year for your
organization contains 365 days, the number of days in the period is 365.
The number of days falling in the first and last period of an asset’s life, however, usually does

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

187 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

not equal a full 365, 30, or 31 days. The number of days in the first period are calculated
based on the following equation:
• Number of Days in First Period = Number of Days Between
Commission Date and Period End Date
The number of days in the last period are calculated based on one of the following equations:
• Number of Days in Last Period = Number of Days Between Period
Start Date and Sold/Scrap Date
• Number of Days in Last Period = Number of Days Between Period
Start Date and the Asset’s End of Life Date
Once the number of days in each period is calculated, the asset’s depreciation expense and
book values can be calculated. See the sections below for examples.

Calculating periodic depreciation expense
The system calculates the periodic depreciation expense based on the following equation:
Periodic Depreciation Expense = Daily Depreciation Rate x Number of Days in Period
If you view depreciation calculations based on fiscal years, the system may have to
further divide each period into two segments to calculate the depreciation expense. If an
asset’s year of life, as defined by its
Commission Date, and fiscal year do not coincide, the system must calculate two periodic
depreciation expenses for each year of the asset’s life. For example your asset’s
Commission Date is 5/1/02, therefore, its first year of life runs from 5/1/02 through 4/30/03.
The fiscal year of the asset runs from 11/1 through 10/31. Therefore, the system must
calculate the asset’s depreciation expense from 5/1/02 to 10/31/02 and then again from
11/1/02 to 4/30/03.
If you select Double Declining Balance as your Depreciation Method, the calculated periodic
depreciation expense for the last period of an asset’s life may cause the Book Value of the
asset to be less than its Residual Value. In this case, the system adjusts the depreciation
expense of the last period so the asset’s Book Value equals its Residual Value.
Example:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

188 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

See the following information to determine an asset’s periodic depreciation expense for the
years 2003, 2004, and 2005:
• The fiscal year of the asset’s organization begins September 1 and ends August 31.
• The Commission Date for the asset is 02-JUL-2003.
• The Sold/Scrap Date of the asset is 02-SEP-2005.
• The daily depreciation expense of the asset is 17.60 USD.
To determine the depreciation expense for the year 2003, the system performs the following
calculation:
2003 Depreciation Expense = Daily Depreciation Expense x Number of
Days Between Commission Date and Period End Date
2003 Depreciation Expense = 17.60 USD * 61
2003 Depreciation Expense = 1,073.60 USD
To determine the depreciation expense for the year 2004, the system performs the following
calculation:
2004 Depreciation Expense = Daily Depreciation Expense x Number of
Days in Period
2004 Depreciation Expense = 17.60 USD * 366
2004 Depreciation Expense = 6,441.60 USD
Because 2004 is a leap year and February 2004 occurs within the organization’s
2004 fiscal year, the number of days in the period is 366.
To determine the depreciation expense for the year 2005, the system performs the following
calculation:
2005 Depreciation Expense = Daily Depreciation Expense x Number of
Days Between Period Start Date and Sold/Scrap Date
2005 Depreciation Expense = 17.60 USD * 2

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

189 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2005 Depreciation Expense = 35.20 USD

Calculating book values
The first time the system calculates the book value of an asset, it calculates based on the
following equation:
Book Value = Original Value - Periodic Depreciation Expense
For all subsequent book value calculations of the asset, the system uses the following
equation:
Book Value = Book Value from Previous Period - Periodic Depreciation
Expense
Example

See the following information to determine an asset's book value at the end of the 2003,
2004, and 2005:
• The Original Value of the asset is 10,000 USD.
• The depreciation expense for 2003 is 1,073.60 USD. The depreciation expense for 2004
is 6,441.60 USD. The depreciation expense for 2005 is 35.20 USD as taken from the
example in "Calculating Periodic Depreciation Expense" earlier in this section.
To determine the asset's book value at the end of 2003, the system performs the following
calculation:
2003 Book Value = Original value - 2003 Periodic Depreciation Expense
Book Value = 10,000 USD - 1073.60 USD
Book Value = 8,926.40 USD
To determine the asset's book value at the end of 2004, the system performs the following
calculation:
2004 Book Value = 2003 Book Value - 2004 Periodic Depreciation
Expense

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

190 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Book Value = 8,926.40 USD - 6,441.60 USD
Book Value = 2,484.80 USD
To determine the asset's book value at the end of 2005, the system performs the following
calculation:
2005 Book Value = 2004 Book Value - 2005 Periodic Depreciation
Expense
Book Value = 2,484.80 USD - 35.20 USD
Book Value = 2,449.60 USD

Entering depreciation data
Enter basic depreciation data for your equipment. Depreciation rates are calculated based on
the information you enter.
See these topics:
• Understanding periodic depreciation and book value calculations
• Understanding periodic depreciation and book value calculations
Create multiple depreciation schedules for a single piece of equipment as necessary. For
example, you need to create report depreciation information to GAAP and a state agency for
a chiller. GAAP requires that you use the Straight Line method, but the state agency requires
that you use the Double Declining Balance method. Create one depreciation schedule for the
chiller using the GAAP type and Straight Line method and a second depreciation schedule
using the state agency type and the double declining balance method.
If you update Starting Value, Rem. Useful Life, the unit of measure, or Residual Value, the
depreciation values are automatically recalculated.
You can also manually recalculate depreciation values for all the equipment records
in an organization for which you have defined depreciation data by clicking the Recalculate
Depreciation Details on the Fiscal Years page of the Organizations form.
1. Select one of these options:.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

191 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the asset, position, or system for which to enter depreciation data, and then click
the Depreciation tab.
3. Click Add Depreciation Type.
4. Specify this information:
Depreciation Method - Select the depreciation method for the depreciation schedule.
Starting Value - Specify the starting value of the asset.
Rem. Useful Life - Specify the remaining useful life of the asset, and then select the
unit of measure of the remaining useful life in the adjacent field. If you select Days or
Months or as the unit of measure, you must specify the remaining useful life as a
positive integer. If you select Weeks, Months, Quarters, or Years, you can specify the
remaining useful life as a decimal.
If you select Weeks, Months, Quarters, or Years as the unit of measure, the
remaining useful life must be converted into number of days in order to calculate
depreciation expenses. Months can automatically be converted into the appropriate
number of corresponding days without performing any calculations. If you select Weeks,
Quarters, or Years, the unit of measure must be converted into days or months in order
to determine the corresponding number of days.
See these terms for more information:

Option

Description

Weeks

The remaining useful life must be converted into
days. The number you specify is multiplied by 7 to
determine the equivalent number of days, and then
the result is rounded to the nearest positive integer.
For example, .1 weeks multiplied by 7 equals .7 days,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

192 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

which is rounded to 1 day.

Quarters

The remaining useful life must be converted into
months. The number you specified is multiplied by 3
to determine the number of months, and then
rounded to the nearest positive integer. For example,
.4 quarters multiplied by 3 equals 1.2 months, which
is rounded to 2 months.

Years

The remaining useful life must be converted into
months. The number you specify is multiplied by 12
to determine the number of months, and then
rounded to the nearest positive integer. For example,
.4 years multiplied by 12 equals 4.8 months, which is
rounded to 5 months.

Relative Start - Specify the relative start for the amount of time between the
commission date and when the depreciation event occurs.
UOM Relative Start - Specify the unit of measure (UOM) for the relative start date. For
example, if Relative Start is set to 5 and the UOM Relative Start is set to years, then
the depreciation event occurs five years after the commission date for the equipment.
Residual Value - Specify the estimated value of the asset at the end of its useful life.
Est. Lifetime Output - Specify the units of output you estimate the equipment will
produce over its lifetime if you selected Units of Output as the Depreciation Method.
Depreciation Category - Select the depreciation category.
Depreciation Type - Select a depreciation type.
Depreciation types are linked to the DETP entity for which you must define your
depreciation type codes. Contact your system administrator for more information.
From Date - Specify the starting date to calculate deprecation.
Relative to Commission - If the depreciation type is Decrease Value, select this check

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

193 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

box to make the Original Component Value field available.
This field can be used to calculate depreciation from the commission date to the from
date of a component being removed from the asset that represents a significant portion
of the total value of the asset. .
The fraction that the Original Component Value represents (Component Value
divided by the Starting Value is calculated when Depreciation Category is
Commission) and this fraction is multiplied by the Current Book Value. The Change
Value field is updated to the fraction of the Current Book Value that the Original
Component Value amount represents.
Change Value - Specify an amount by which to change the Starting Value of the asset
if the Depreciation Category is Increase Value or Decrease Value.
Change Life - Specify an amount by which to change the Rem. Useful Life of the asset
if the Depreciation Category is Increase Life or Decrease Life.
Change Estimated Lifetime Output - Specify an amount by which to change the Est.
Lifetime Output of the asset if the Depreciation Category is Increase Estimated
Lifetime Output or Decrease Estimated Lifetime Output.
Original Component Value - Specify the original component value.
The Original Component Value amount is depreciated from the Commission Date to
the From Date using the defined depreciation method. The value of the Change Value
field will be updated to the depreciated Original Component Value amount and the
new Starting Value will be increased by the Change Value amount.
Notes - Specify additional detail about the depreciation of the equipment.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing depreciation details
View depreciation details based on the fiscal year defined for your organization or for each
month of the fiscal year defined for your organization.
See Understanding periodic depreciation and book value calculations.
If you update an asset’s Original Value, Est. Useful Life, the unit of measure, Residual

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

194 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Value, or Commission Date, the depreciation values are recalculated.
If you update an asset’s values, the new depreciation calculations are displayed. You
cannot access the asset’s former depreciation calculations. Likewise, if you transfer an asset
to a new organization, the depreciation is calculated based on the fiscal year of the asset’s
new organization. You cannot access the asset’s former depreciation calculations.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the asset, position, or system for which to view depreciation details, and then
click the Depreciation tab.
3. Select the depreciation record for which to view depreciation details, and then click
View Depreciation Details.
4. Select Fiscal Years or Months to view the depreciation details based on fiscal years or
months. Depreciation (To Date), Depreciation (Period To Date), and Book Value (To
Date) are automatically populated based on the following equations:

Straight Line, Sum of Years Digits, and Double Declining
Balance

Units of
Output

DDaily Depreciation Rate x Number of Days Between Commission
eDate and Current Date
p
r
e
c
i
a
t
i
o

Depreciation
Per Unit * Units
of Output in the
period through
n (where n=
fiscal year prior
to current fiscal
year) +
Depreciation for
the Current
Fiscal Year

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

195 of 2039

n
(
T
o
D
a
t
e
)

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

through Today’s
Date
Depreciation
Per Unit =
(starting value residual value)/
estimated
lifetime output
See Calculating
units of output
depreciation.
For the
current fiscal
year,
depreciation
uses the
following
equation:
Average
Number of Units
Produced per
Day * Number
fiscal through
today's date *
Depreciation
per Unit where:
Average
Number of Units
per day =
entered Units of
Output total
days in Fiscal
Year

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

196 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Number of
Fiscal Year
days through
Today's Date =
Today's Date –
Commission
Date or Fiscal
Year Start Date,
whichever is
greater + 1
Depreciation
Per Unit =
(Original Value
– Residual
Value) /
Estimated
Lifetime Value

DDaily Depreciation Rate x Number of Days Between First Day in the
eCurrent Period and the Current Date
p
r
e
c
i
a
t
i
o
n
(
P
e
r
i

See equation in
Depreciation
(To Date) above
for more
information on
calculating
depreciation in
current period.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

197 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

o
d
T
o
D
a
t
e
)

BOriginal Value – Depreciation (To Date)
o
o
k
V
a
l
u
e
(
T
o
D
a
t
e
)

Original Value –
Depreciation
(To Date)

5. Click Close.

Entering units of output
Enter units of output information for equipment if you are tracking its depreciation based on
the Units of Output depreciation method.
1. Select one of these options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

198 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the asset, position, or system for which to enter units of output, and then click the
Depreciation tab.
3. Select the depreciation record for which to enter units of output, and then click Units of
Output.
4. Click Add Units of Output.
5. Specify this information:
Start Date - Specify the fiscal year for which to enter units of output. End Date is
automatically populated.
If the fiscal year’s End Date is later than today’s date, Depreciate (To Date),
Depreciation (Period To Date), and Book Value (To Date) are calculated based on the
entire length of the fiscal year. See Viewing depreciation details.
Units of Output - Specify the number of units produced by the piece of equipment.
6. Click Submit.
7. Click Close.

Defining default attributes for equipment classes
Define default attributes for equipment classes including service life by years or usage. You
can also associate additional Service Life Usages on the Service Life Usages tab.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Class Definitions.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization.
Class - Specify the class for which to define default attributes.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

199 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Category - Optionally, specify the category for the equipment class.
Service Life (years) - Optionally, specify the service life of the equipment class or
category in years.
Service Life Usage - Optionally, specify the service life of the equipment class or
category based on its usage.
Service Life Usage UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the Service Life Usage.
Performance Formula - Specify the performance formula to use for the equipment
class.
Auto Create Class Level - Select this check box to automatically create a class level
record when performance is calculated for an equipment in this class. The Class and
Class Org. field must be specified as */* for this field to be available.
Auto Create Category Level - Select this check box to automatically create a category
level record when performance is calculated for an equipment in this class. The
Category field must be blank for this field to be available.
4. Click Save.

Associating cost types with equipment class definitions
Associate cost types with equipment class definitions. Cost types can be specified for annual
maintenance, replacement, or refurbishment.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Class Definition.
2. Select the equipment class definition with which to associate cost types, and then click
the Cost Types tab.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization associated with the cost type.
Cost Type - Select one of these options:
• Annual Maintenance
• Replacement

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

200 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Refurbishment
Note - Optionally, specify a note for the cost type.
Estimated Cost - Specify the estimated cost for the cost type.
At Age (years) - If the Cost Type is specified as Refurbishment, specify the age
of the equipment at which the cost type applies. For example, you can specify the
equipment will have refurbishment costs when it is 10 years old.
At Usage - If the Cost Type is specified as Refurbishment, specify the usage
amount at which the cost type applies. For example, you can specify the
equipment will have refurbishment costs when it has reached 10,000 miles of
usage.
At Usage UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the At Usage field.
Condition Score Improvement - If the Cost Type is specified as Replacement,
specify how much the condition score is improved by replacing the equipment.
Standard WO - If the Cost Type is specified as Refurbishment, optionally specify
a work order.
4. Click Submit.

Associating service life usage with equipment classes
Associate service life usages with equipment class definitions. For example, if you specify a
service life usage in miles on the Equipment Class Definitions screen you can use this tab
to add an additional record for kilometers or any other UOM you might need.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Class Definition.
2. Select the equipment class definition with which to associate service life usages, and
then click the Service Life Usage tab.
3. Specify this information:
Unit of Measure - Specify the unit of measure for the service life usage.
Service Life Usage - Specify the service life of the equipment in this class or category
based on its usage.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

201 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Submit.

Defining capacities for equipment classes
Define anticipated capacities for a selected capacity code for an individual equipment of a
certain category or class. A desired capacity can also be recorded for the group as a whole.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Ranking > Equipment Class Definitions.
2. Select the equipment class for which to define capacities, and then click the Capacities
tab.
3. Specify this information:
Capacity Code - Specify the capacity code for which to define capacities.
Capacity - Specify the capacity for each equipment in the class or category.
Desired Capacity - Specify the desired capacity for each equipment in the class or
category.
Total Desired Capacity - Specify the desired capacity for the combined set of
equipment in the class or category.
Date Effective - Specify the date this capacity becomes effective.
4. Click Submit.

Associating equipment with decay curves
Associate equipment, equipment classes, or equipment categories with decay curves. These
records are used to determine which history records are included in the Markov transition
matrix generation process, as well as which records are displayed on the curve chart.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Ranking > Decay Curves.
2. Select the decay curve with which to associate equipment, and then click the Ranking
History Selection tab.
3. Specify the Class, Category, or Equipment to associate with the decay curve.
If you select more than one equipment, the system will create a record for each

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

202 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

selected equipment.
4. Specify this information:
Type - Specify the type, such as Condition Index, Criticality Index, Facility Condition
Index, Reliability Index, or Risk Priority Index.
Include Withdrawn - Optionally, select this check box to include classes, categories, or
equipment that are no longer available for use.
Include Out of Service - Optionally, select this check box to include classes,
categories, or equipment that are out of service.
Include Linear - Optionally, select this check box to include classes, categories, or
equipment that are linear.
5. Click Submit.

Understanding equipment rankings
Create equipment rankings for equipment to determine the criticality or risk a piece of
equipment poses to your operation. If the machine fails, could it have safety or environmental
implications, or will it result in production shutdown? Equipment rankings will help formalize
the process to determine this risk based on your answers to the ranking questions you have
configured.
Equipment rankings allow users to assign a Ranking Index and Ranking Score to assess
equipment risk. Users must first define criteria by which to assess the risk.
Use the Decision Tree and develop the formula to calculate the Ranking Score, and use the
assigned score ranges to determine which Ranking Index should be applied.
To utilize the equipment ranking functionality, perform these tasks:
1. Create an equipment ranking record.
2. Add levels to the decision tree structure.
3. Add answers to the decision tree.
4. Add formulas to the decision tree.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

203 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Add normalization values to the decision tree.
6. Order questions for the decision tree.
7. Assign ranking scores to ranking index values.
8. Associate equipment to an equipment ranking.
9. Answer the ranking survey.
10. Calculate ranking values.

Creating equipment rankings
Create equipment rankings for equipment.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Ranking.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment Ranking - Specify a unique code identifying the equipment ranking, and
then specify a description of the equipment ranking in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the equipment ranking.
Type - Select the type of equipment ranking.
Track History - If the ranking type is Condition Index (CI), Criticality Index (CRI) or Risk
Priority Index (RPI), select this check box to track the history of the equipment score
calculated by this ranking.
Condition Protocol - If the ranking type is Condition Index (CI), specify the condition
protocol for the equipment ranking, such as Age, Condition Inspection, or based on a
Decay Curve.
If the Condition Protocol field is set to any of the decay curves, such as Age (DCA),
Usage (DCU), % of Age (DCPA), or % of Usage (DCPU), specify the Condition Score
Start, Condition Score End, and Condition Score Threshold.
If the Condition Protocol field is set to any of the decay curves, such as Age (DCA),

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

204 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Usage (DCU), % of Age (DCPA), or % of Usage (DCPU), specify the Decay Curve and
Condition Score Threshold.
Precision - Optionally, specify the maximum number of decimal places to which the
calculated equipment ranking score will be rounded.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to exclude the equipment ranking in the
lookup on the Equipment page record.
5. Click Save Record.

Creating survey setup for equipment rankings
Create, view, or modify the survey setup for a equipment ranking to calculate an equipment
ranking score. The setup consists of survey questions and answers that are part of a decision
tree. This tree is comprised of four levels which include the top equipment ranking level and
up to three sub-levels, answers, formulas, and normalization values.
If the Condition Protocol field on the header record is not blank, the Survey Setup tab is
protected because a survey is not required. The only exception is if this field is set to
Condition Inspection.
All levels must be used. Different branches in the survey may use varying numbers
of levels. To create a survey setup for equipment rankings:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Ranking.
2. Select the equipment ranking for which to create a survey setup, and then click the
Survey Setup tab.

Adding levels
Add levels to the survey setup to create a structure for calculating equipment rankings.
A level can be a node in the survey where a formula is executed or it can be a question. A
question always means the lowest level in the survey has been reached. If the level is a
question, one or more answers must be supplied for the question level. Levels that are not
questions may have child levels.
To add levels:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

205 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. On the Survey Setup tab, expand the tree, select the level for which to add to, and then
click Add Level.
2. Specify this information:
Level - Specify the unique code identifying the level, and then specify a description in
the adjacent field.
Question Level - Select to indicate the level is a question with which an answer will be
associated.
Question - Specify the question the system will ask if this level is a question level.
Optionally, specify this information for question levels:
Numeric - Select this check box if the answer to the question is numeric.
Integer - Select this check box if the answer to the question is an integer. This is similar
to Numeric but also includes fractions as possible answers.
Minimum - Specify the lowest value for the answer that can be provided.
Maximum - Specify the highest value for the answer that can be provided.
Calculated - Select this check box to indicate that the level is automatically calculated
instead of specified by the user.
Query Code - If Calculated is selected, specify the query that the system executes to
automatically determine the answer for this question.
Aspect - Specify the inspection aspect associated with the question.
Checklist Type - If Aspect is specified, specify the checklist type associated with the
question.
Allow Operator Checklist - Select this check box to allow operator checklists to be
used for input for the survey.
3. Click Submit.
To translate the selected level description and question, select the level, and
then click Translations or Question Translations. The system opens the Translations
popup. Select the language record, specify the Translated Description, and then select

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

206 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Translated.

Adding answers
Add answers to a selected question level in the survey to create a structure for calculating
equipment rankings.
To add answers:
1. On the Survey Setup tab, select a question level, and then click Add/Edit Answers.
2. Click Add Answer.
3. Specify this information:
Answer - Specify a unique code identifying the answer, and then specify the answer in
the adjacent field.
Specify as many answers as necessary for a selected Question Level.
Value - Specify the value for the answer.
The system uses this value in the formula to determine the Equipment Ranking
Score.
4. Optionally, specify these to map checklist results to the survey based on the checklist
type:
• Select Yes or No if the checklist type is Question (Yes/No).
• Specify the Finding if the checklist type is Qualitative or Inspection.
• Select OK if the checklist type is OK/Repair Needed, OK/Adjusted, OK/Adjusted
Measurement, Nonconformity Check, or Nonconformity Measurement.
• Select Repair Needed if the checklist type is OK/Repair Needed.
OK or Repair Needed may be selected multiple times if the checklist type
is OK/Repair Needed but each answer has a different Resolution, including a
blank resolution.
• Specify the Resolution if the checklist type is OK/Repair Needed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

207 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Select Good or Poor if the checklist type is Good/Poor.
• Select Adjusted if the checklist type is OK/Adjusted or OK/Adjusted
Measurement.
• Specify the Nonconformity and Severity if the checklist type is Nonconformity
Check or Nonconformity Measurement.
Nonconformity may be selected multiple times if Checklist Type is
Nonconformity Check or Nonconformity Measurement, but each answer has a
different Severity, including a blank severity.
5. Click Submit.
To translate the selected answer description, select the answer, and then click
Translations. Select the language record, specify the Translated Description, and
then select Translated.

Adding formulas
Add, edit, or delete a formula for a selected non-Question level.
The system does not allow formula associations to question levels.
To add formulas:
1. On the Survey Setup tab, select a non-question level for which to add a formula, and
then click Add/Edit Formula. The system automatically populates Level and the level
description of all the children.
2. Specify this information:
Formula - Specify the formula. Use the child levels in the formula by adding a colon ":"
in front of the level code. The formula also supports any SQL numeric functions.
Example: Where the score for the level is determined by the average of the
environmental level and 2 times the safety level:
(:ENVIRONMENT + 2* :SAFETY) / 2
3. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

208 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Adding normalization values
Add, edit, or delete normalization values for a selected level.
You can normalize a level if the outcome for that level fluctuates between a certain range of
values. However, this is not the range you want to pass along to the higher level in the tree.
Identify the outcome range and the normalized outcome range you want to use moving
forward.
A question level cannot be normalized.
To add normalization values:
1. On the Survey Setup tab, select a non-Question level, and then click Normalize Level.
2. Click Add Value.
3. Specify this information:
Minimum Value - Specify the minimum value for the range.
Maximum Value - Specify the maximum value for the range.
Normalized Value - Specify the normalized value for the range.
4. Click Submit.

Ordering questions
Update the sequential order of questions for equipment rankings.
To order questions:
1. On the Survey Setup tab, click Order Questions. The system automatically populates
Question, Description, and Level.
2. Specify this information:
Sequence Number - Specify the number for each Question to define the sequential
order in which the questions should appear on the equipment ranking survey.
3. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

209 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Assigning a ranking index
Assign a ranking index to a range of values. The system uses the assigned value when a
ranking score has been calculated for equipment using the decision tree formulas.
To assign a ranking index:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Ranking.
2. Select the ranking for which to assign a ranking index, and then click the Ranks tab.
3. Click Add Rank.
4. Specify this information:
Minimum Value - Specify a minimum score for the selected index for the ranking score.
Maximum Value - Specify a maximum score for selected index for the ranking score.
Ranking Index - Specify the ranking index. The system automatically populates the
ranking index description. The ranking index is created on the System Codes screen
using codes for OBRI entity.
Criticality Index - Specify the criticality index. The Criticality index is created on the
System Codes screen using codes for the OBCR entity.
If Type it is not set to Criticality Index, then the Ranking Index field is required.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing equipment associated to equipment rankings
View the list of equipment associated to selected equipment rankings.
To view equipment for equipment rankings:
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Rankings.
2. Select the equipment ranking for which to view associated equipment, and then click the
Equipment tab.
3. View the equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

210 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Selecting equipment rankings for equipment
Select one or more equipment rankings for equipment. For example, you can determine one
ranking based on safety and another ranking based on environmental impact.
To select an equipment ranking for equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to select equipment rankings, and then click the
Rankings tab.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment Ranking - Select an equipment ranking to associate with the equipment.
You can select only one equipment ranking of type Condition Index and one
equipment ranking of type Facility Condition Index. You can select as many equipment
rankings of type Reliability Index as needed.
Lock Ranking Values - Select this check box to prevent ranking values from being
calculated.
Default - Select this check box to make this equipment ranking the default ranking for
the equipment. The data of this ranking is also available on the Record View of the
equipment.
Only one equipment ranking of type Reliability Index can be selected as the
default equipment ranking.
Refresh Every - Specify how often the equipment ranking should be calculated. For
example, you can specify that the equipment ranking should be calculated every 30
days. This is only available if calculated questions are included in the survey.
Next Refresh - Specify the date that the equipment ranking should be calculated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

211 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Refresh Sequence - Specify the order in which this equipment ranking should be
calculated. For example, if you specify 1 for this equipment ranking and 2 for another
equipment ranking, this equipment ranking will be calculated first.
4. Click Submit.
5. Optionally, click Calculate Ranking Values to calculate the Equipment Ranking Score.

Completing the ranking survey
Answer the questions on the survey for selected equipment to calculate the Equipment
Ranking Score and the Equipment Ranking Index.
The system calculates the Equipment Ranking Score using the formula of the equipment
ranking levels and the answers specified on the ranking survey. If a range has been defined
for normalization, the system normalizes the output for the ranking formula during the formula
calculation roll-up process.
To complete the survey:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the asset for which to complete the survey, and then click the Ranking Survey
tab. The system automatically populates Question and Value.
Questions are based on the selected equipment ranking associated to the
selected asset
3. Select the Question, and then specify the Answer.
4. Click Calculate Ranking Values when the survey is complete.
The system calculates and automatically populates Equipment Ranking Score and
associated Equipment Ranking Index for the selected asset.
The system also automatically populates Ranking Values Out of Sync, Ranking

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

212 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Values Last Calculated,Ranking Survey Last Updated, and Ranking Setup Last
Updated for the selected asset.

Updating equipment ranking values in a batch
Save selection information to calculate and assign Ranking Score and Ranking Index values
to an equipment class, category, or to selected equipment.
Once a new batch record is created for the equipment class, category, or selected equipment
and ranking values are calculated, the system applies the ranking values to all records in the
selected equipment class, category, or type.
To update rankings values in a batch:
1. Select Equipment > Process > Batch Update Equipment Ranking Values.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify a description for the ranking batch update record.
4. Specify the Organization, Equipment Class, Equipment Category, Equipment, and
Equipment Ranking.
5. Select the Include Children check box to include the child equipment of the selected
equipment in the ranking values.
6. Click Save Record. The system automatically assigns a Record ID.

Updating ranking values of equipment with multiple classes
Update ranking values for equipment of different classes simultaneously. Specify the Class,
Category, or Equipment for which to select equipment for the batch update of the ranking
values.
To batch update ranking values:
1. Select Equipment > Process > Batch Update Equipment Ranking Values.
2. Select the equipment ranking batch update record for which to update equipment
classes, and then click the Equipment Classes tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

213 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Specify the Class, Category, or Equipment.
4. Click Submit.

Completing the ranking survey in a batch
Answer all questions related to the equipment ranking survey for the selected equipment
ranking and equipment. Once all questions are answered, the system calculates the Ranking
Score and associated Ranking Index.
To complete the equipment ranking survey in a batch:
1. Select Equipment > Process > Batch Update Equipment Ranking Values.
2. Select a ranking batch update record, and then click the Ranking Survey tab. The
system automatically populates Sequence Number, Question, Level, the level
description, and Value.
3. Specify this information:
Answer - Select the answer to the question.
4. Click Submit.
To calculate the equipment ranking value after the survey is complete, click
Calculate Ranking Values. The system calculates the values and automatically
populates Ranking Index, Ranking Score, Ranking Values Out of Sync, Ranking
Values Last Calculated, Ranking Survey Last Updated, Ranking Setup Last
Updated, Date Created, and Created By on the Record View.

Copying equipment ranking values to equipment in a batch
Apply equipment ranking values to selected equipment.
To apply equipment ranking values to selected equipment in a batch:
1. Select Equipment > Process > Batch Update Equipment Ranking Values.
2. Select the equipment ranking batch update record for which to copy equipment ranking
values, and then click the Equipment tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

214 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Select the equipment records for which to apply equipment ranking values.
4. Click Apply Equipment Ranking Values to Selected Equipment.
The system updates the Equipment list and automatically populates Ranking Index,
Ranking Score, Ranking Values Out of Sync, Ranking Values Last Calculated,
Survey Last Updated, and Ranking Setup Last Updated.
5. Click Detach Ranking from Selected Equipment to detach the ranking from the
selected equipment.
6. Click Set as Default for Selected Equipment to set the equipment ranking as the
default for the selected equipment.
Only one equipment ranking of type Facility Condition Index type and one
equipment ranking of type Condition Index can be applied to a piece of equipment.

Copying equipment rankings
Copy equipment rankings to quickly create a new equipment ranking by copying information
from an existing equipment ranking to a new equipment ranking.
To copy equipment rankings:
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Equipment Rankings.
2. Select a equipment ranking record for which to copy equipment rankings, and then click
the Record View tab.
3. Right-click anywhere on the Equipment Rankings form, and then select Copy
Equipment Ranking.
4. Specify this information:
New Equipment Ranking - Specify a unique code identifying the new equipment
ranking, and then specify a description of the equipment ranking in the adjacent field.
5. Select which related details to copy to the new equipment ranking. These include:
• Custom Field Values
• Comments

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

215 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Decision Tree
• Documents
• Ranks
6. Click Submit.

Printing the reliability calculations reports
Print the reliability calculations chart, hazard chart, probability density chart, or unreliability
chart.
To print the reliability calculations reports:
1. Select one of these options:.
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
2. Click the Reliability Calculations tab.
3. Specify this information:
Type - Specify the type of chart to generate for the report. Specify H for Hazard Chart, P
for Probability Density Chart, R for Reliability Chart, or U for Unreliability Chart.
4. Specify the Problem Code, Failure Code, Cause Code, Action Code, Sequence
Number, Start Day, and Scale Multiplier.
5. Click Submit.
6. Click Print.

Viewing ranking history for equipment
View ranking history records for equipment. You can manually add and update ranking history
data on this screen.
You can also view records that are generated by the system. The System Generated check
box is selected if the record has a valid equipment ranking associated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

216 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to view ranking history records, and then click the
Ranking History tab.
3. View the ranking history records for the equipment.
4. Click Add Record to create a new equipment ranking record.
5. Specify this information:
Type - Specify the ranking type, such as Condition Index, Criticality Index, Facility
Condition Index, Reliability Index, or Risk Priority Index.
Date - Specify the date for the ranking.
Ranking Score - Specify the ranking score.
6. Optionally, specify this information:
Ranking Index - Specify the ranking index.
Usage - Specify the usage associated with ranking.
Meter UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the usage.
Performance - Specify a rating for the performance of the equipment performance with
a value of 0 to 100.
Condition Rating - Specify a numeric rating from 0 to 100 for the condition of the
equipment.
From Point - Specify the from point for the ranking, as well as the reference description
and geographic reference.
To Point - Specify the to point for the ranking, as well as the reference description and
geographic reference.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

217 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The From Point and To Point fields can only be specified if the header
equipment is linear.
7. Click Submit.

Printing the ranking history chart
Print the ranking history chart. The chart includes the condition index, risk priority index, and
criticality index. The chart can be viewed by date or by usage.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to view the ranking history, and then click the Ranking
History Chart tab.
3. Specify this information:
Condition Index - Select this check box to include the condition index in the ranking
history chart.
Condition Index Type - Select the condition index type to include in the report.
Risk Priority Index - Select this check box to include the risk priority index in the
ranking history chart.
Risk Priority Type - Select the risk priority index type to include in the report.
Criticality Index - Select this check box to include the criticality index in the ranking
history chart.
Criticality Index Type - Select the criticality index type to include in the report.
Usage Based - Select this check box to show the ranking history by usage instead of by
date.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve
data.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

218 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining details for decay curves
Define decay curve details for equipment. The decay curve records the anticipated asset
condition score over time for a given asset class.
Use Markov chains if you want the system to determine the decay curve for you. Markov
chains use a transition matrix to determine the likelihood that the equipment will be in a
certain state or health after it has reached a certain state or health in a previous iteration of
the chain. The changes to the state of the equipment are called transitions and the
probabilities that the equipment moves from one state to another are called transition
probabilities. The initial state of the equipment is assumed to be perfect health.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Ranking > Decay Curves.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Decay Curve - Specify the name and description of the decay curve.
Organization - Specify the organization associated with the decay curve.
Status - Specify the status of the decay curve.
Type Max - Specify the maximum value for the number of periods, usage or percentage
related to the selection you made for the Type field.
Type - Specify Period Based, Usage Based, or Percentage as the decay curve type.
Period Based - If you specify the Type as Period Based, specify a unit of measure for
the period of time.
Usage Based - If you specify the Type as Usage Based, specify of unit of measure for
usage.
Condition Score Start - Specify the starting condition score value when the equipment
is new
Condition Score End - Specify the starting condition score value when the equipment
is at the end of its useful life.
Condition Score Threshold - Specify the threshold condition score when the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

219 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equipment reaches the end of its useful life.
Operational Modifier - Optionally, specify the operational modifier for the decay curve.
The operational modifier notes usage conditions such as cold climate and school year
on which the Decay Curve is based. Usage in warmer climate and for a whole year
could result in different decay curves.
Linear Asset Flag - Optionally, select this check box to indicate that the decay curve
relates to linear assets.
4. Specify this information for stochastic modeling:
Markov Chains - Select this check box to use Markov chains to create the decay curve.
Number of States - Specify the number of states that will be used in the transition
matrix. The minimum is 2 and the maximum is 10.
Curve Point Interval - Specify the interval for curve points. The interval depends on
your selection of Type and Type Max.
If you are defining a period-based curve for 20 years and you want a condition score for
every year, specify 1. The system will then calculate curve points for you and divide 20
by 1.
For a usage-based decay curve where the maximum usage is 500,000 miles you may
want a condition score for every 10,000 miles. In this example, specify 10,000 for the
Curve Point Interval and then the system will set curve points at 50.
Precision - Set the precision of the calculated condition score.
5. Click Save.

Defining curve points for decay curves
Define curve points for decay curves. This tab records the condition score of the equipment at
a certain moment in its life, either based on years, usage or a percentage of the expected
maximum life or expected maximum usage.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Ranking > Decay Curves.
2. Select the decay curve for which to define curve points, and then click the Curve Points

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

220 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

tab.
3. Specify this information:
Point Value - Specify a point value for the curve point.
The UOM for the Point Value is based on the value specified for Type and
possibly Period Based or Usage Based on the header record.
Condition Score - Specify the condition score for the curve point.
The condition score will automatically be determined if you use Markov Chains.
You can overwrite this value, even if Markov Chains were used. The Auto Generated
check box will be cleared in this case.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing the decay curve chart
View the curve chart for a specific decay curve. The decay curve chart shows the curve points
and the threshold score.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Ranking > Decay Curves.
2. Select the decay curve for which to view the curve chart, and then click the Curve Chart
tab.
3. View the curve chart.

Recording details for the Markov transition matrix
Record the probabilities to transition from one state to another and the weight assigned to
each state to determine the health of the equipment. After the probability matrix is complete,
click Generate Curve Points, which starts the process that creates new curve points
automatically based on Markov chains.
A Markov chain is a stochastic model used to determine the likelihood that the equipment will
be in a certain state or health after it has reached a certain state or health in a previous
iteration of the chain. The changes to the state of the equipment are called transitions and the
probabilities that the equipment moves from one state to another are called transition
probabilities. The initial state of the equipment is assumed to be perfect health.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

221 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You can add zones to differentiate the deterioration of equipment for periods of time. For
example, equipment may have one decay curve for five years but a different decay curve for
the next five years.
To select the probabilities of transitioning to different states you must first select the Markov
Chains check box on the Decay Curves screen and specify the Number of States.
1. Select Equipment > Equipment Rankings > Decay Curves.
2. Select the decay curve for which to define details for the Markov transition matrix, and
then click the Markov Transition Matrix tab.
3. Specify the probabilities of transitioning from each state to another state as a number
ranging from 0 to 1.
4. Click Add New Zone to create a new zone for the transition matrix.
A new set of transition probability records are created for the next higher zone for the
header decay curve. You can have a maximum of 99 zones.
5. Click Remove Highest Zone to remove the set of transition probabilities associated
with the highest zone.
6. Click Generate Curve Points to generate the curve points for the transition matrix.
7. Click Generate Matrix and Curve Points to generate the new transition matrix and new
curve points. The job is processed in the background because it may take time
depending on how many historical records are included.
You cannot automatically generate the matrix for percentage-based decay
curves. For these decay curve types, the matrix must be entered manually.

Defining performance formulas
Define formulas used to calculate equipment performance. A formula consists of four
variables that include condition, capacity, MTBF (mean time between failure), and MTTR
(mean time to repair), and up to six user defined variables. Each variable is assigned a weight
which determines how much it contributes to the overall performance of the equipment.
Performance is a number between 0 and 100, where 0 is poor performance and 100 is best
performance.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

222 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Equipment > Performance Formulas.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Performance Formula - Select the performance formula to use to calculate equipment
performance.
Description - Specify a description for the performance formula
Organization - Specify the organization for the performance formula.
Class - Specify the class for the performance formula.
Status - Specify the status of the performance formula, such as Unfinished, Request
Approval, or Approved.
4. Specify this condition and capacity details:
Capacity Rating Weight - Specify a weight for the capacity rating from 0 to 1.
Condition Rating Weight - Specify a weight for the condition rating from 0 to 1.
Capacity Code - Specify the capacity code for the performance formula.
5. Specify this information for the MTBF and MTTR details:
MTBF Rating Weight - Specify the weight that must be assigned to the MTBF (mean
time between failure) Rating of the equipment.
Maximum Allowable Failures per Year - Specify the maximum number of failures
allowed per year.
Include Children - Select this check box to include the children of the equipment.
Usage Based - Select this check box to calculate the number of failures relative to the
usage of the equipment. For example, for a bus it may be more relevant to know that
there are 10 failures per 10000 miles than 10 failures per year.
At Usage per Day - Specify the usage per day and the At Usage per Day UOM for the
performance formula.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

223 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

MTTR Rating Weight - Specify the weight that must be assigned to the MTTR (mean
time to repair) Rating of the equipment.
Maximum Allowable Repair Hours - Specify the maximum number of hours allowed
for repair.
Repair Time Calculation - Specify the calculation for determining the repair time.
Use Downtime Hours if Present - Select this check box to use downtime hours for
repair if available.
6. Optionally, specify this information for these variables:
You can set up the use of six configurable parameters and weights to include in
the performance calculations. All variables work the same way.
Variable 1 Rating Weight - Specify the weight that must be assigned to the Variable 1
Rating of the equipment.
Variable 1 Query - Specify the query for the first variable.
Best Acceptable Result 1 - Specify the best acceptable result for the first variable.
Worst Acceptable Result 1 - Specify the worst acceptable result for the first variable.
7. Click Save.

Creating rooms
Create rooms that are accessible in HxGN EAM and Infor HMS when the two products are
integrated.
If the rooms were created in HxGN EAM you may edit the rooms on this form.
However if the rooms were created in Infor HMS you cannot edit the rooms on this form. To
edit the rooms access the room records on the Rooms form in Infor HMS.
To create rooms:
1. Select Equipment > Rooms.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Room Type, Unit Type, Maximum Guest Count, Phone Number, Key

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

224 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Number, Square Footage, Number of Beds, Number of Baths, and Facility for the
room.
4. Specify this information:
Property - Specify the property to which the room belongs.
Room - Specify a room number to identify the room, and then specify a description of
the room in the adjacent field. The system automatically populates Building, Wing,
Floor, and Exposure.
Location information (Building, Wing, Floor, and Exposure) is only available
when HxGN EAM is integrated with Infor HMS. It is not possible to track this information
in a stand-alone HxGN EAM environment.
Status - Select the status of the room.

Option

Description

In Service

Assigned when a room is in place and operating
within the business organization.

Withdrawn

Assigned when a room is no longer available for use.
The system automatically populates Withdrawal
Date.

Commission Date - Select the room's installation date, or date the room will be counted
in inventory.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the room, which is typically
housekeeping or building maintenance personnel.
Kitchen - Select the type of kitchen the room includes. Your options are Central, None,
Shared, or Private.
Living Room - Select the type of living room the room includes. Your options are
Central, None, Shared, or Private.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

225 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Out of Service - Select this check box to prevent the room from being displayed in
lookups.
Accessible - Select this check box if the room is accessible to persons with disabilities.
Non-Smoking - Select this check box if the room is designated as a non-smoking room.
Reservation Calendar Owner - Specify the reservation calendar owner who can edit
equipment reservations.
Cost Roll-up - Select this check box if the costs should roll up to the facility.
Open Bay - Select this check box if this room is designated as an open bay.
5. Specify the Name, VIP Status, Email Address, and Guest Phone Number for the
guest.
Guest information such as Name, VIP Status, Email Address, and Guest
Phone Number is only editable from Infor HMS when operating in an integrated
environment with HxGN EAM. This guest information cannot be manually specified
when operating in standalone HxGN EAM.
6. Click Save Record.

Creating facilities
Create facilities to identify and maintain buildings, floors, elevators, HVAC units, etc. for
associated properties.
To create facilities:
1. Select Equipment > Facilities.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Property - Specify the property to which the facility belongs.
Facility - Specify a unique code identifying the facility, and then specify a description of
the facility in the adjacent field.
Facility Parent - Specify the parent facility.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

226 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Type - Select the facility type.
Status - Select the status of the facility. For example, select In Service to designate the
facility as available for use. The system automatically populates Withdrawal Date when
Status is Withdrawn.
Year Built - Specify the year the facility was built or purchased.
Commission Date - Specify the date the facility was commissioned.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for maintaining the facility, typically the
maintenance personnel.
Out of Service - Select to exclude the facility from lookups.
FCI Calculation - Select to calculate the Facility Condition Index (FCI) for the facility.
Service Life (years) - Specify the service life of the facility.
Facility Condition Index (FCI) - Specify the resultant FCI based on the maintenance
details of the facility. Cost of Needed Repairs/Current Replacement
Value=FCI
Cost of Needed Repairs - Specify the cost of necessary repairs. The system
automatically populates the currency and selects Eligible for Energy Star Label.
Replacement Value - Specify the current replacement value for the equipment. The
system automatically populates the currency.
Reservation Calendar Owner - Specify the reservation calendar owner who can edit
equipment reservations.
Cost Roll-up - Select if costs should roll up to the parent facility.
Track Utility Bills - Select to mark the facility as having capabilities to record utility bills.
Track GAS - Select to set the facility as GAS (Global Asset Sustainability) Tracked.
Manufacturer - Specify the facility's manufacturer.
Serial Number - Specify the facility's serial number.
Model - Specify the facility's model number.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

227 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Lock Reliability Ranking Values - Select to lock the reliability ranking values for the
facility on the Reliability Survey tab of the Equipment screen.
If Lock Reliability Ranking Values is selected, the system will not allow the
user to modify the reliability survey answers and calculate reliability ranking values for
the facility. The system also prevents the selection of facility for update on the Batch
Update Reliability Ranking Values form.
Reliability Ranking - Specify the reliability ranking code for the facility.
The system automatically populates Reliability Ranking Index, Reliability Ranking
Score, Reliability Ranking Values Out of Sync, Reliability Ranking Values Last
Calculated, Reliability Survey Last Updated, and Reliability Ranking Setup Last
Updated, after answering the reliability survey.
4. Click Save Record.

Creating vehicles
Create and maintain vehicles for hospitality properties.
To create vehicles:
1. Select Equipment > Vehicles.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Vehicle, Property, Status, Vehicle Value, Facility,Commission Date,
Driver, and Driver Phone Number.
4. Specify this information:
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the vehicle, typically the maintenance
personnel.
Documoto Book ID - Specify a specific Documoto Book with which to associate the
vehicle.
Accessible - Select this check box if the vehicle is handicap accessible.
Non-Smoking - Select this check box if the vehicle is a non-smoking vehicle.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

228 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Out of Service - Select this check box to prevent the vehicle from displaying in lookups.
Reservation Calendar Owner - Specify the reservation calendar owner who can edit
equipment reservations.
Cost Roll-up - Select this check box if costs should roll up to the vehicle's associated
facility.
5. Specify the Manufacturer, Serial Number, and Model of the vehicle.
6. Click Save Record.

Defining policies
Define your organization's corporate initiatives as policies. For example, a policy can be a
corporate initiative to improve energy performance.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Policies.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Policy - Specify a unique code identifying the policy, and then specify a description of
the policy in the adjacent field.
Policy Statement - Specify a policy statement that explains how your organization
plans to achieve the goal. The policy statement cannot contain more than 4,000
characters.
Approved By - Specify the name of the person responsible for approving the policy.
Date Approved - Specify the date the policy was approved.
Out of Service - Select if the policy is currently not being used. If you select Out of
Service, the policy will not display in the lookups for policies on other forms.
4. Specify this ranking information:
Lock Ranking Values - Select this check box to protect the other ranking fields in the
Ranking Details section.
Equipment Ranking - Specify the equipment ranking that will be used to calculate the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

229 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Ranking Score and Ranking Index for the policy.
Refresh Every - Specify a numerical value for how often the ranking should be
calculated. For example, you can specify that the policy Ranking Score and Ranking
Index should be calculated every 30 days.
Refresh Every UOM - Specify the length of the interval of time to pass before the
ranking should be calculated. For example, you can specify that the ranking should be
calculated by days, week, or months.
Next Refresh - Specify the date that the ranking should be calculated.
Refresh Sequence - Specify the order in which this ranking should be calculated. For
example, if you specify 1 for this policy and 2 for another policy, this policy will be
calculated first.
5. Click Save Record.

Viewing strategies for policies
View a list of strategies associated with a policy.
To view strategies for policies:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Policies.
2. Select the policy for which to view strategies, and then click the Strategies tab.
3. View the strategies.

Completing the ranking survey for policies
Answer the questions on the survey for the selected policy to calculate the Ranking Score
and the Ranking Index for policies.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Policies.
2. Select the policy for which to complete the ranking survey, and then click the Ranking
Survey tab.
3. Select the Question, and then specify the Answer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

230 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Submit.
5. Click Calculate Ranking Values when the survey is complete.

Defining strategies
Strategic initiatives help organizations meet long-term goals. For example, a strategic
initiative can be your organization's corporate commitment to reducing electrical consumption.
Define your organization's strategic initiatives as strategies.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Strategies.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Strategy - Specify a unique code identifying the strategy, and then specify a description
of the strategy in the adjacent field.
Policy - Specify the policy to associate with the strategy. A policy can be associated
with multiple strategies. The system automatically populates the policy description.
Strategy Statement - Specify a strategy statement that explains how your organization
plans to achieve the goal. The strategy statement cannot contain more than 4,000
characters.
Approved By - Specify the name of the person responsible for approving the strategy.
Date Approved - Specify the date the strategy was approved.
4. Select the Out of Service check box if the strategy is currently not being used. If you
select Out of Service, the strategy will not display in the lookups for strategies on other
forms.
5. Specify this information:
Lock Ranking Values - Select this check box to protect the other ranking fields in the
Ranking Details section.
Equipment Ranking - Specify the equipment ranking for the strategy.
Refresh Every - Specify a numerical value for how often the equipment ranking should

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

231 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

be calculated. For example, you can specify that the equipment ranking should be
calculated every 30 days.
Refresh Every UOM - Specify the length of the interval of time to pass before the
equipment ranking should be calculated. For example, you can specify that the
equipment ranking should be calculated by days, week, or months.
Next Refresh - Specify the date that the equipment ranking should be calculated.
Refresh Sequence - Specify the order in which this equipment ranking should be
calculated. For example, if you specify 1 for this equipment ranking and 2 for another
equipment ranking, this equipment ranking will be calculated first.
6. Click Save Record.

Viewing objectives for strategies
View a list of objectives associated with a strategy.
To view objectives for strategies:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Strategies.
2. Select the strategy for which to view objectives, and then click the Objectives tab.
3. View the objectives.

Completing the ranking survey for strategies
Answer the questions on the survey for the selected strategy to calculate the Ranking Score
and the Ranking Index for strategies.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Strategies.
2. Select the strategy for which to complete the ranking survey, and then click the Ranking
Survey tab.
3. Select the Question, and then specify the Answer.
4. Click Submit.
5. Click Calculate Ranking Values when the survey is complete.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

232 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining objectives
Define your organization's tactical initiatives as objectives. Tactical initiatives are short-term
goals that help an organization achieve its strategic, long-term goals. The expected results
and when the results are expected will be specifically stated. For example, an objective can
be a tactical initiative to reduce electrical consumption at a facility by a specific amount and by
a particular date.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Objectives.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the objectives belong.
Objective - Specify a unique code identifying the objective, and then specify a
description of the objective in the adjacent field.
Strategy - Specify the strategy to associate with the objective. A strategy may be
associated with multiple objectives. The system populates the strategy description.
Objective Statement - Specify an objective statement that explains how your
organization plans to achieve the goal. The objective statement cannot contain more
than 4,000 characters.
Currency - Specify the currency for the objective.
Approved By - Specify the name of the person responsible for approving the objective.
Date Approved - Specify the date the objective was approved.
Out of Service - Select if the objective is currently not being used. If you select Out of
Service, the objective will not appear in the lookups for objectives on other forms.
Target Type - Select the target type for the objective. You can select target types for
these target types: asset performance, energy, and waste.
Target Subtype - Select the target subtype, depending on the selected Target Type.
Reliability Calculations - Select the reliability calculations. If the target subtype is
reliability, you can select the reliability calculations.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

233 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters - Select the parameters. You can select parameters for these reliability
calculations: Crow-AMSAA Individual Events, Crow-AMSAA Cumulative Events, Weibull
Individual Events, and Weibull Cumulative Events.
Conversion Type - Select one of the conversion type options:

Option

Description

EPA 2007

Select if the objective was designed to help reduce
factors that contribute to environmental damage as a
result of the EPA 2007 plan.

Defra 2009

Select if the objective was designed to help reduce
factors that contribute to environmental damage as a
result of the Defra 2009 plan.

UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the objective.
Category Options - Select the category option.
Baseline Date Range From Date/To Date - Specify the beginning and ending dates
with which to compare the final results to determine if an improvement was made.
Kickoff Date - Specify the date the objective begins.
Goal Date - Specify the date the objective ends.
Baseline Amount - Specify the baseline amount before the objective is implemented.
Change Amount - Specify the expected change in the amount after the objective is
completed. The system calculates Days, Target Amount, and Target Change %.
4. Specify this ranking information:
Lock Ranking Values - Select this check box to protect the other ranking fields in the
Ranking Details section.
Equipment Ranking - Specify the equipment ranking for the objective.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

234 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Refresh Every - Specify a numerical value for how often the equipment ranking should
be calculated. For example, you can specify that the equipment ranking should be
calculated every 30 days
Refresh Every UOM - Specify the length of the interval of time to pass before the
equipment ranking should be calculated. For example, you can specify that the
equipment ranking should be calculated by days, week, or months.
Next Refresh - Specify the date that the equipment ranking should be calculated.
Refresh Sequence - Specify the order in which this equipment ranking should be
calculated. For example, if you specify 1 for this equipment ranking and 2 for another
equipment ranking, this equipment ranking will be calculated first.
5. Click Save Record.

Defining energy targets for objectives
Define energy targets used to support selected objectives.
To define energy targets for objectives:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Objectives.
2. Select the objective for which to define an energy target, and then click the Energy
Targets tab.
3. Click Add Energy Target.
4. Specify the Scope, Activity, and Emission Source for the energy target.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing capital planning requests for objectives
View a list of capital planning requests that are associated with a specific objective. For each
objective, the system displays the capital planning request which includes the financial
aspects of the project.
To view capital planning requests for objectives:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

235 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Objectives.
2. Select the objective for which to view capital planning requests, and then click the CPRs
(Plans) tab.
3. View the capital planning requests.

Completing the ranking survey for objectives
Answer the questions on the survey for the selected objective to calculate the Ranking Score
and the Ranking Index for objectives.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Objectives.
2. Select the objective for which to complete the ranking survey, and then click the
Ranking Survey tab.
3. Select the Question, and then specify the Answer.
4. Click Submit.
5. Click Calculate Ranking Values when the survey is complete.

Defining parameters for asset inventory
Perform asset audits to compare the physical location of the asset in the system with the
actual physical location of the asset. Define the parameters for the asset inventory on the
Parameters tab, and then perform the asset inventory manually or using a handheld device.
To define parameters for asset inventory:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Inventory.
2. Click the Parameters tab.
3. Select the Parameter List, and then specify the Asset Organization, Department,
Asset Class, Asset Status, Inventory Verification Date, Parent Store, and Standard
WO.
The Session ID will be created after you click Create/Update Session. Specify a
description of the session in the adjacent field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

236 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Assigned To - Specify to whom the asset counting is assigned.
Physical Location Parent - Specify the physical location parent for the asset. The
system automatically populates Physical Location Parent Org.
Physical Location Type - Select the physical location type for the asset.
5. Optionally, specify the Asset Organization, Department, Asset Class, Asset Status,
and Inventory Verification Date.
The system will exclude all asset records with an Inventory Verification Date
later than the date specified on the Parameters tab.
6. Select the Blind Inventory check box if the Inventory Results tab should not be
synced to the mobile device.
7. Select the Allow Move WO(s) check box to give the iPad user permission to create
Move WO(s).
8. Select the Allow Physical Location Updates to give the iPad user permission to make
structural changes.
9. Click Create/Update Session. The system displays the results on the Inventory
Results tab for the selected Physical Location Parent and asset children with a status of
"I" if a specific status is not specified.
When Create/Update Session is clicked, the system saves and protects all
fields except Standard WO.

Viewing inventory results for assets
View a list of assets generated based on data specified on the Parameters tab.
To view inventory results for assets:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Inventory.
2. Click the Inventory Results tab. The system displays the asset records generated
based on the settings on the Parameters tab or the Session ID.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

237 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. View the asset records.

Marking assets as not found
Assets can be marked as not found if Observed Physical Location, Observed Bin
Location, and Resolution are blank.
To mark assets as not found:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Inventory.
2. Click the Inventory Results tab.
3. Select the assets to mark as not found, and then click Mark as Not Found.

Adding assets to list
Add assets that were not a part of the asset inventory session. To add assets to list:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Inventory.
2. Click the Inventory Results tab.
3. Click Add Asset to List.
4. Specify this information:
Asset - Specify the asset to add to the list. The system automatically populates
Description and Asset Org. Assets with a status of installed, also known as "I", and to
which you have organization rights and department security rights will be shown.
5. Click Submit.

Updating observed physical location of assets
Update the observed physical location of an asset when it is determined that the system
indicates that the asset is in a different location. The observed physical location can only be
updated if the Asset Inventory Status is Unfinished.
To update the observed physical location of assets:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

238 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Inventory.
2. Click the Inventory Results tab.
3. Select the asset record for which to update the observed physical location, and then
click Update System with Observed Physical/Bin Location.
4. Specify the Observed Physical Location, Observed Physical Location Org.,
Observed Bin Location, and Inventory Verification Date.
5. Click Save.

Creating work orders for assets
Create work orders for assets that need to be moved to a new location.
To create work orders for assets:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Inventory.
2. Click the Inventory Results tab.
3. Select the asset record for which to create a work order, and then click Create Move
WO(s). If the Observed Physical Location is not equal to the System Physical
Location, the system updates the Resolution to Move WO Created <WO Number>.
When creating work orders for assets, specify Inventory Verification Date.
Otherwise, they system automatically updates Inventory Verification Date to the
current system date.

Approving sessions for asset inventory
Approve an existing asset inventory session.
To approve sessions for asset inventory:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Inventory.
2. Select the Session ID to approve.
3. Click the Inventory Results tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

239 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Approve Session.

Canceling sessions for asset inventory
Cancel an existing asset inventory session if the Session ID is populated and Status is
Unfinished.
To cancel sessions for asset inventory:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Inventory.
2. Specify this information:
Session ID - Select the session to cancel.
3. Click Cancel Session.

Adding safety data to equipment
Add safety data to equipment to inform your employees of any hazardous situation that can
cause bodily harm and of the precautions to take to protect themselves from these hazards.
For example, you can add a precaution to turn equipment off and remove the power cord from
the power outlet before performing repairs on electrical equipment. After adding the safety
data, review and verify the record by clicking the Reviewed By icon. The review fields will be
automatically populated after you review the record.
To add safety data to equipment:
1. Select one of these options: .
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
• Equipment > Setup > Categories
• Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

240 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the equipment for which to add safety data, and then click the Safety tab.
3. Specify this information:
Hazard - Specify the hazard to add to the equipment. The system automatically
populates Hazard Org., Hazard Type, and the hazard description.
Precaution - Specify the safety measure to protect your employees from the hazard.
The system automatically populates Precaution Org. and the precaution description.
Timing - Select the timing which is used to identify when the precaution should be
taken. For example, if your employee is working with fire, you can specify the timing of
pre-work to alert the employee that they should wear fire-resistant clothing before
beginning the task.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number which is used to identify the order in which
your employee should be made aware of the precaution. All precautions are important
regardless of the sequence number specified.
4. Select the Apply to Children check box to have the safety details applied to all of the
child records. A safety record attached to a production line will now be visible on all
equipment in that production line.
5. Select the Delete Pending check box to delete the pending safety record during the
next review.
6. Click Submit. The system automatically populates Created By, Date Created,
Updated By, Date Updated, Reviewed By, Reviewed By Name, Date Reviewed, and
Review Type.

Defining lockout/tagout details for equipment
Define the steps your employees must take to isolate equipment from its energy sources so
that your employees can complete maintenance work on the equipment without suffering
bodily harm or other potential dangers in the event of the unexpected startup of the
equipment or the release of stored energy. For example, define the steps necessary to isolate
a jammed conveyor system from its energy sources so that the work performing maintenance
and clearing the jam is not injured by the unexpected startup or release of the conveyor
system.
1. On any of the equipment screens, select the asset, position, system, or location for

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

241 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

which to define lockout/tagout details, and then click the LOTO tab.
2. Click Add LOTO Record.
3. Specify this information:
Sequence - Specify the sequence in which to implement lockout/tagout procedures.
Isolation Type - Select the isolation type or method for isolating or disconnecting
equipment, such as a water valve, from its energy source in order that work can be
performed without risk or injury.
Isolation Step - Select to indicate this procedure is an isolation step and not a deisolation step.
Isolation Point - Specify the isolation point or area the equipment can be isolated from
its energy sources to prevent injury from unexpected startup.
Location Note - Specify any additional notes on the location of the equipment as
necessary.
Energy Source - Select the equipment's source of energy such as electrical power.
Isolation Method - Specify the method by which to isolate the equipment from its
energy source.
Number of Tags - Specify the number of tags required to properly lock and tag the
equipment so that automatic startup of the equipment is prevented.
Residual Energy - Select the source of residual energy to the equipment if any.
Secondary Residual Energy - Select the secondary source that stores residual energy
for the equipment. This source supplies energy to the equipment when the equipment is
disconnected from its primary energy and secondary energy sources.
Delete Pending - Select to delete the lockout/tagout details record during the next
review.
4. Click Submit.
5. Optionally, perform any of these actions:
• To copy lockout/tagout details from equipment, click Import From Equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

242 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To copy lockout/tagout details from a permit to work, click Import from PTW.

Importing lockout/tagout details from equipment
When defining lockout/tagout details for equipment, you can import the details from existing
equipment records.
To import lockout/tagout details from equipment:
1. Select one of these options:.
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the asset, position, system, or location for which to define lockout/tagout details,
and then click the LOTO tab.
3. Click Import from Equipment.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment from which to copy lockout/tagout details. The
system automatically populates Equipment Org.
Isolation Type - Select the isolation type from which to copy lockout/tagout details. To
copy all available isolation types, leave this field blank.
If records already exist for an isolation type, the system deletes the records
prior to copying the new records.
5. Click Submit.

Importing lockout/tagout details from permits to work
When defining lockout/tagout details for equipment, you can import the details from existing
permit to work records.
To import lockout/tagout details from permits to work:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

243 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select one of these options:.
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the asset, position, system, or location for which to define lockout/tagout details,
and then click the LOTO tab.
3. Click Import from PTW.
4. Specify this information:
Permit to Work - Specify the permit to work from which to copy lockout/tagout details.
Isolation Type - Select the isolation type to assign to the new lockout/tagout details.
If records already exist for an isolation type, the system deletes the records
prior to copying the new records.
5. Click Submit.

Defining nonconformities
Define nonconformities, such as decay, corrosion, leaks, or cracks. You can record new
observations for the nonconformity to track its development.
To define nonconformities:
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformities > Nonconformities.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify a description and Organization for the nonconformity.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the nonconformity.
Department - Specify the department.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

244 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Class - Specify the class.
Part - Specify the part associated to the nonconformity.
Status - Specify the status of the nonconformity.
Type - Specify the type of nonconformity.
Material Type - Specify the material type of the nonconformity, such as metal, wood, or
plastic.
Severity - Specify how severely the nonconformity affects the equipment. For example,
you can select a minor severity if the nonconformity does not affect the functionality of
the equipment.
Intensity - Optionally, specify the intensity of how the nonconformity has developed. For
example, you can select average intensity if the nonconformity is visible and has grown
over time.
Size - Optionally, specify the size of the nonconformity.
Importance - Optionally, specify how important the component is that has the
nonconformity. For example, you can select critical importance if the component is vital,
such as the handrail of steps.
Priority - Optionally, select the priority for the nonconformity.
Notes - Optionally, specify notes for the nonconformity.
5. Click Save.
a. Optionally, right-click and select Merge Nonconformity to merge two
nonconformities.
b. Optionally, right-click and select Create WO to create a work order for the
nonconformity.
c. Optionally, right-click and select Create Capital Planning Request to create a
capital planning request for the nonconformity.
d. Optionally, right-click and select View All Comments to view comments for the
nonconformity observations and the nonconformity header record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

245 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

e. Optionally, right-click and select View All Documents to view documents for the
nonconformity observations and the nonconformity header record .

Merging nonconformities
If different users track two nonconformities that are determined to be the same issue, these
nonconformities and their observations can be merged.
To merge nonconformities:
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformities.
2. Select a nonconformity record to keep, and then click Merge Nonconformity.
3. Select the nonconformity to be merged.
4. Click Submit.

Performing a linear equipment search for nonconformities
Search for nonconformities along linear equipment records. Specify the range or length along
the selected linear equipment record, at which the search for work orders will take place.
Nonconformities for linear references will not be searched.
To perform a linear equipment search for nonconformities:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities.
2. Right-click on the Nonconformities screen, and then select Perform Linear Search.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to perform the linear search.
Search Range Start - Specify the starting point on the linear equipment at which to
begin the search.
Search Range End - Specify the ending point on the linear equipment at which to end
the search.
4. Optionally, select the Include Children check box to also search for nonconformities

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

246 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

over the same range for equipment structure children.
5. Click Search and View Results.

Specifying results of checklists for nonconformities
Specify results for checklists associated with nonconformities. You can use checklists to verify
that observation data was collected correctly.
You must specify the Task Plan for Checklist on the Nonconformity Observations screen
or on the Observations tab of the Nonconformities screen for a checklist to be associated
with the nonconformity.
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformities > Nonconformities.
2. Select the nonconformity for which to specify checklist results, and then click the
Checklist tab.
You cannot change checklist items if these conditions exist:
• The nonconformity Status is Closed.
• The Use Observation Status is not Automatic and the observation Status is not
Unfinished.
• The Use Observation Status is Automatic and the observation Status is not
Unfinished or Approved.
You can specify the Use Observation Status and other settings for
nonconformities and nonconformity observations on the Nonconformities Setup
screen.
See Defining settings for nonconformities.
3. Optionally, you may add, edit, or view documents attached to task checklist items on the
Checklist tab. Click Add/Edit Checklist Item Documents for a selected checklist item
to add or edit associated documents.
4. Specify the Observation for which to complete the checklist.
5. Specify the results of the checklist.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

247 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Specify this information:
Result - Specify the result of the checklist item.
Notes - Optionally, specify any notes for the checklist item.
Final Occ. - Optionally, select the check box if the results entered represent the final
occurrence of the specific checklist item.
Performed By - Specify who performed the checklist.
Reviewed By - Specify who reviewed the checklist.
7. Click Submit.

Creating observations for nonconformities
Create and maintain observations for nonconformities. You can specify the status and severity
of the observation. Each new observation is assigned a sequential number so its
development can be tracked.
To create an observation for a nonconformity:
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformities.
2. Select the nonconformity for which to create observations, and then click the
Observations tab.
3. Specify this information:
Observation Status - Specify the status of the observation, such as Unfinished or
Approved.
Task Plan for Checklist - Specify Task Plan for Checklist for the observation.
Severity - Specify the severity of the observation.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing nonconformities associated with equipment
View nonconformities and observations associated with assets, positions, systems, and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

248 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

locations.
To view nonconformities associated with equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Select Equipment > Assets.
• Select Equipment > Positions.
• Select Equipment > Systems.
• Select Equipment > Locations.
2. Select the equipment for which to view nonconformities, and then click the
Nonconformities tab.
3. View the nonconformities and observations.

Defining settings for nonconformities
Define settings for nonconformities and nonconformity observations to control
synchronization, status changes, and merge restrictions.
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformities > Nonconformities Setup.
2. Select an organization for which to define settings.
3. Specify this information:
Protect Header Data - Optionally, select to protect the header nonconformity data on
the Nonconformity Observations screen and the Nonconformities tab of the Work
Order screen if more than one observation is present for the nonconformity.
Protection of individual fields is still subject to the selections on the
Nonconformities tab of the Revision Control Setup screen.
Protect Observation Data on Header - Optionally, select to protect the observation
data on the Nonconformities screen in update mode.
Synchronize Header With Observation - Specify when observation data should be
synchronized with the associated nonconformity header.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

249 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Merge Restrictions - Specify which nonconformities can be selected for merging.
If set to Unrestricted, there is no constraint. If set to Restricted, Equipment, Type, Part,
System Level, Assembly Level, Component Level, and Material Type must be the same
or blank
If set to Similar Equipment, only Equipment must be the same. If set to Similar Type,
only Type must be the same. And if set to Similar Part, only Part, System Level,
Assembly Level, Component Level, and Material Type must be the same.
Use Observation Status - Specify whether nonconformity observations require manual
status changes or not.
If set to Yes, the user must manually change the status. If set to No, the system will
protect the status and never apply changes.
If Automatic, the system will protect the status and will apply updates automatically.
If you specify Yes for Observation Status, the Superseded Status and ReInspection Status fields become required.
Superseded Status - Optionally, specify the status of the currently approved
observation after approval of a new observation. You can select any value, as long as it
is attached to an approved or superseded system code.
Re-Inspection Status - Optionally, specify the value of the Status of new observations
when created for a re-inspection of an existing nonconformity. This is used for
automatically generated observations during the release of PM or Maintenance Pattern
work orders.
This is also used when manually creating a new observation for an existing
nonconformity on the Nonconformity Observations screen.
Auto Approve Status - Optionally, specify what status should be automatically set for
any unfinished observation associated with the work order.
This only works if the observation was created for the work order or if the observation
was for re-inspection and the record was updated. If you leave this value blank the
system will prevent closing the work order.
Auto Skip Status - Optionally, specify what status should be automatically set for any

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

250 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

observation associated with the work order for re-inspection.
This only works if the record was not updated (skipped). If you leave this value blank the
system will prevent closing the work order.
Include Condition for Re-Inspection - Optionally, select to copy the values of severity,
intensity, size, importance, and next inspection date override from the related
nonconformity header to the observation when a new observation is created. Otherwise,
these fields will remain blank on the new observation.
Previous Observation Count - Optionally, specify to determine how many other
previous observations for the same nonconformity will be displayed on the comments
and documents pop-up screens. If left blank, the default is 0.
4. Select the Mass Acknowledgement Allowed check box to allow the mass
acknowledgement of observations from mobile applications.
Optionally specify these fields:
Copy Severity - Select this check box to copy the severity of the nonconformity header
or another observation if mass acknowledgement is allowed.
Copy Intensity - Select this check box to copy the intensity of the nonconformity header
or another observation if mass acknowledgement is allowed.
Copy Size - Select this check box to copy the size of the nonconformity header or
another observation if mass acknowledgement is allowed.
Copy Importance - Select this check box to copy the importance of the nonconformity
header or another observation if mass acknowledgement is allowed.
Copy Next Inspection Date Override - Select this check box to copy the next
inspection date override of the nonconformity header or another observation if mass
acknowledgement is allowed.
Copy Observation UDF - Select this check box to copy the user defined values of
another observation if mass acknowledgement is allowed.
Copy From - Specify whether the data is copied from the nonconformity header or
another observation of the same nonconformity.
5. Click Save.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

251 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating status dependencies for nonconformities
Create and maintain observation status codes and their effect on the nonconformity header
status. For example, you can specify that if the nonconformity observation is set to Approved,
the Nonconformity status on the header record is set to Confirmed/Open.
To create a status dependency:
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformities > Nonconformities Setup.
2. Select the organization for which to setup status dependencies, and then click the
Status Dependencies tab.
3. Specify this information:
Observation Status - Specify the observation status that will determine the status of
the Nonconformity Status.
Nonconformity Status - Specify what the status of the nonconformity should be based
on the Observation Status.
Only if Nonconformity Status Is - Optionally, specify what the nonconformity status
must be for the status dependency to occur.
For example, you can specify that if the Observation Status is set to Repair, then the
Nonconformity Status will be set to Temporary Repair but only if the current
Nonconformity Status is Open.
4. Click Submit.

Creating nonconformity observations
Define observations for nonconformities, such as decay, corrosion, leaks, or cracks. On this
screen, you can add a new nonconformity or update an observation for an existing
nonconformity. Each new observation is assigned a sequential number so its development
can be tracked.
To create an observation of a nonconformity:
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformities > Nonconformity Observations.
2. Click New Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

252 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Specify a description and Organization for the nonconformity.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the observation.
Type - Specify the type of observation.
Class - Specify the class.
Nonconformity Note - Optionally, specify a note for the nonconformity
Observation Status - Specify the status of the observation. The observation cannot be
deleted if it has a status of Unfinished or if the header nonconformity status is Closed.
Task Plan for Checklist - Select a checklist for the nonconformity. The task plan must
be specified as a Nonconformity Checklist on the Task Plans screen.
Severity - Optionally, specify the severity of the observation.
Intensity - Optionally, specify the intensity of the observation.
Size - Optionally, specify the size of the observation.
Severity - Optionally, specify the importance of the observation.
Observation Note - Optionally, specify the note for the observation.
5. Optionally specify Recorded By and Date Recorded.
6. Click Save.
a. Optionally, right-click and select New Observation to create a new observation for
the nonconformity.
b. Optionally, right-click and select Create WO to create a work order for the
nonconformity.
c. Optionally, right-click and select View All Comments to view comments for the
nonconformity observations and the nonconformity header record.
d. Optionally, right-click and select View All Documents to view documents for the
nonconformity observations and the nonconformity header record .

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

253 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

7. Click New Observation to create a new observation for a nonconformity.

Specifying results of checklists for nonconformity observations
Specify results for checklists associated with nonconformity observations. You can use
checklists to verify that observation data was collected correctly.
You must specify the Task Plan for Checklist on the Nonconformity Observations screen
or on the Observations Tab of the Nonconformities screen for a checklist to be associated
with the nonconformity.
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformities > Nonconformity Observations.
2. Select the nonconformity observation for which to specify checklist results, and then
click the Checklist tab.
You cannot change checklist items if these conditions exist:
• The nonconformity Status is Closed.
• The Use Observation Status is not Automatic and the observation Status is not
Unfinished.
• The Use Observation Status is Automatic and the observation Status is not
Unfinished or Approved.
You can specify the Use Observation Status and other settings for
nonconformities and nonconformity observations on the Nonconformities Setup
screen. See Defining settings for nonconformities.
3. Optionally, you may add, edit, or view documents attached to task checklist items on the
Checklist tab. Click Add/Edit Checklist Item Documents for a selected checklist item
to add or edit associated documents.
4. Specify this information:
Result - Specify the result of the checklist item.
Notes - Optionally, specify any notes for the checklist item.
Final Occ. - Optionally, Select the check box if the results entered represent the final
occurrence of the specific checklist item.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

254 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Performed By - Specify who performed the checklist.
Reviewed By - Specify who reviewed the checklist.
5. Click Submit.

Defining nonconformity types
Define nonconformity types for parts. For example, you can create a nonconformity type
named "Stained" and associate it with the cloth fabric of a car.
To define nonconformity types:
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformity Types.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Nonconformity Type - Specify the nonconformity type, such as rotting, cracked, loose.
Description - Specify a description for the nonconformity type.
Organization - Specify the organization associated with the nonconformity type
Class - Optionally, specify the class associated with the nonconformity type.
Severity - Specify the severity of the nonconformity type, such as Minor, Major, or
Catastrophic.
Nonconformity - Specify the class for the nonconformity.
Task Plan for Checklist - Specify the task plan to use for the nonconformity type.
Out of Service - Select this check box if the nonconformity type is out of service.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order for the nonconformity type.
4. Click Save.

Associating material types with nonconformity types
Associate material types with applicable nonconformity types. For example, you can

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

255 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

associate fabric with nonconformity types like torn, stained, or faded.
To associate a part with a nonconformity type:
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformity Types.
2. Select a nonconformity type, and then click the Material Types tab.
3. Click Add Material Type.
4. Select a material type to associate with the nonconformity type.
5. Click Submit.

Associating EMRS with nonconformity types
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformity Types.
2. Select a nonconformity type, and then click the EMRS tab.
3. Click Add Component.
4. Select the System Level to associate with the nonconformity type.
5. Optionally, select the Assembly Level and Component Level to associate with the
nonconformity type.
6. Click Submit.

Associating parts with nonconformity types
Associate parts with applicable nonconformity types. For example, you can associate a tire
with nonconformity types like flat, underinflated, or punctured.
To associate a part with a nonconformity type:
1. Select Equipment > Nonconformity Types.
2. Select a nonconformity type, and then click Parts.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify one or more parts to associate with the nonconformity type.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

256 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Entering notes in the notebook
Enter notes and details about defects for equipment.
To enter notes in the notebook:
1. Select Equipment > Notebook.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to make notes.
Note - Specify a note.
4. Optionally, specify this information to record a defect:
Private - Select this check box to indicate that the notebook is a private record
belonging to the user who created the notebook.
Defect - Select this check box to indicate there is a defect for the equipment.
If an existing open nonconformity with the same equipment and type is found and
Defect is selected, a new observation record is created. If a similar nonconformity
record is not found and Defect is selected, a new nonconformity header observation
record is created.
If not selected, the Nonconformity Type, Nonconformity Class, and Nonconformity
Severity fields are protected.
History - Select this check box to hide the record from the default dataspy.
Equipment - Specify the equipment with the defect.
Nonconformity Type - Specify the type of nonconformity.
Level 1 - Specify the equipment for the first level, such as a Division.
Level 2 - Specify the equipment for the second level, such as a Line.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

257 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Level 3A - Specify the equipment for the third level, such as a Track.
Level 3 - Specify the equipment for the third level, such as a Section.
Level 4 - Specify the equipment for the fourth level, such as the Nearest Station.
Stationing (major) - Specify the primary numeric identifier for the location of the issue
being recorded in the notebook.
Stationing (minor) - Specify the secondary numeric identifier for the location of the
issue being recorded in the notebook.
Detailed Location - Optionally, specify the detailed location of the defect.
5. Click Save. A Mobile Notebook number is generated.
A nonconformity or an observation record is also created. If the install parameter
NOTEBKNC is set to NO, a nonconformity or observation record is not created when
the notebook record is saved with the defect check box selected.

Adding emails to the notebook
Add email transactions for the notebook. An email transaction is a record of to whom the
notebook creator wants to send the notebook.
To view emails for the mobile notebook:
1. Select Equipment > Notebook.
2. Click the Emails tab.
3. Specify the Employee and E-mail Address.
4. Click Submit.

Adding references for the notebook
Add references for the notebook.
To add references:
1. Select Equipment > Notebook.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

258 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select a notebook for which to add references, and then click the References tab.
3. Click Add Reference to add a new reference to the notebook.
4. Specify the Referenced Notebook Code.
5. Click Submit.

Defining details for condition score matrix setup
The condition score matrix is used to determine the condition score, condition index, and next
inspection date of a nonconformity.
Define any combination of severity, intensity, size, and importance, and then associate a
condition score, index, and inspection interval. For example, you can specify that a
nonconformity with minor severity, low intensity, and low importance should have a low
condition score with a condition index of reasonable.
1. Select Equipment > Condition Score Matrix.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
RCM Project - Select the RCM Project.
Severity - Select the severity level of the nonconformity, such as minor, serious, or
severe.
Intensity - Select the intensity level of the nonconformity, such as low, moderate, or
high.
Size From Size To - Specify the size range of the nonconformity.
Importance - Specify the importance of the equipment.
Condition Score - Specify a number for the condition score.
Condition Index - Select the condition index.
You can create a condition score matrix in which a nonconformity with the
lowest severity, intensity, size, and importance is assigned a score of 1 whereas a
nonconformity with the highest severity, intensity, size, and importance is assigned a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

259 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

score of 5.
Re-Inspect After - Specify the duration of time before the nonconformity is reinspected.
4. Click Save.

Viewing the reservation calendar
View equipment reservations on the Reservation Calendar. Unscheduled equipment can be
scheduled on the calendar by double clicking on an empty time period or dragging and
dropping to create a time period on the calendar. Reserved equipment can be modified by
authorized users by moving the reservation to a different time period.
You can set up the default settings for the calendar on the Reservation Calendar tab of the
Screen Setup screen.
To view the reservation calendar:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Reservation Calendar.
2. View the Reservation Calendar.
3. Select Go To Day to select a day for which to view reserved equipment.
4. Rest on an equipment reservation record in the calendar grid to view the title and
description of the equipment reservation.
You can only view and edit the reservation details if you created the reservation
or if you are the Reservation Calendar owner.
5. Optionally, double-click a piece of equipment in the equipment grid to view all of the
calendar reservations for that equipment.

Setting up defaults for reservation calendar
Setup defaults for the Reservation Calendar screen. These values are used when displaying
the scheduling calendar for a piece of equipment.
To set up defaults for the Reservation Calendar screen:
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Screen Setup.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

260 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the equipment for which to setup defaults for the Reservation Calendar screen,
and then click the Reservation Calendar tab.
3. Specify this information:
Schedule Setting - Select Minute, Hour, or Day for the schedule setting.
If you do not specify a Schedule Setting, the screen will show the Minute based
calendar by default.
Block Duration - Select the duration of the block of time. The block duration is
dependent on the Schedule Setting that you selected.
For example, if you select Minute for Schedule Setting, you can select 15, 30, or 45 for
the Block Duration. If you select Hour for Schedule Setting, you can select any whole
number between 0 and 24.
Working Start Time Hours - Select the hour that work starts.
Working Start Time Minutes - Select the minute that work starts.
Working End Time Hours - Select the hour that work ends.
Working End Time Minutes - Select the minute that work ends.
4. Specify the Default Reservation Type. Select Pool if the equipment is marked as
Reservable Equipment, Loaner if the equipment marked as Contract Equipment on the
header, or Other if the equipment is equipment not marked as Reservable or Contract.
5. Select the check boxes for the working days.
6. Select the Popup Function which denotes the popup and its clones.
7. Click Save Record.

Creating equipment reservations
Create and modify equipment reservations on a calendar to request or reserve equipment
records. Equipment reservations can be viewed in increments of minutes, hours, and days.
Move reservations on the calendar screen to adjust start and end times for equipment
records.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

261 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You should define defaults on the Reservation Calendar tab of the Screen Setup screen
before reserving equipment on the Reservation Calendar screen.
You can only request or reserve equipment on this screen. All other status changes have to
be done on the Reservations screen. If the equipment status is Issued, you can only change
the End Date.
The created user of the reservation, the Reservation Calendar Owner, and any users that
are part of the Reservation Calendar Owners List associated with the record can edit the
reservation.
To create an equipment reservation:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Reservation Calendar.
2. Select Go To Day to select a day for which to view reserved equipment.
3. Double-click a specific time period on the calendar to schedule the equipment.
You can also create an equipment reservation by clicking on an empty grid on
the calendar and dragging to the side to specify the duration. You can move existing
reservations by clicking and dragging them to empty spaces on the grid.
4. Specify the Title, Start Date/Time, End Date/Time, and Status of the reservation.
5. Specify this information:
Travel From (Minutes) and Travel To (Minutes) - Specify the amount of travel time
needed for the equipment reservation.
Setup Time (Minutes) - Specify the amount of time needed for setting up the
equipment.
Tear Down Time - Specify the amount of time needed for dismantling the equipment.
6. Select the Private check box to prevent users who did not create the equipment
reservation from editing and seeing the details of the equipment reservation.
7. Select the All Day check box to change the Start Date and End Dates to midnight so
the reservation will last all day.
8. Specify the Work Order, Work Address, and Project for the equipment reservation.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

262 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

9. Optionally, specify the Instruction 1 for Supplier 1. Repeat this step for Supplier 2 and
Supplier 3.
10. Optionally, specify the Building Services, Building Services Email, Building
Services Instruction, and Invitees for the equipment reservation.
11. Specify Vehicle Type, Issue To, Customer, Customer Contact, Reference, Cost
Code, Phone Number, Work Phone Number, E-mail, and Driver's License No. for
the rental details.
12. Click Submit.

Creating sets and consists
A set is a group of equipment that are physically attached to each other, such as train cars. A
consist is one or more sets of these equipment, such as a fully functional train.
To create a set or consist:
1. Select Equipment > Sets/Consists.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Set/Consist - Specify the name and description of set or consist.
Organization - Specify the organization associated with the set or consist.
Type - Specify whether the equipment is a set or a consist.
Class - Specify the class of the set or consist.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the start and end dates for the consist. These fields
cannot be specified for sets.
You can create duplicate consists but not duplicate sets. For duplicate consists,
the Start Date and End Date for the duplicate consists cannot overlap.
4. Click Save Record.

Adding equipment to sets and consists

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

263 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Build sets and consists by adding equipment and defining the position of the equipment within
the sets and consists.
To add equipment to a set or consist:
1. Select Equipment > Sets/Consists.
2. Select the set or consist to which to add equipment, and then click the Equipment tab.
3. Click New Record.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Select one or more pieces of equipment to be part of the set or consist.
Set Position - Specify the position of the equipment within the set.
Consist Position - Specify the position of the equipment within the consist.
5. Click Submit.

Copying a consist
To copy a consist:
1. Select Equipment > Sets/Consists.
2. Select a Consist record, and click Copy Consist.
3. Specify the New Consist Description, New Start Date, and New End Date.
4. Optionally, specify this information:
Custom Field Values - Select this check box to copy custom field values associated
with the consist.
Equipment - Select this check box to copy equipment associated with the consist.
Addresses - Select this check box to copy addresses associated with the consist.
Comments - Select this check box to copy comments associated with the consist.
Documents - Select this check box to copy documents associated with the consist.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

264 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Defining workspaces
Define the space or area where work is completed. Examples of a workspace include an
office, a cubicle, and a meeting room.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Workspaces.
2. Specify the Workspace name and description.
3. Specify the Organization, Department, Status, Type, and Class.
4. Specify this information:
Location - Specify the location of the workspace.
Seating Designation - Specify the seating designation for the workspace, such as
room or cubicle number.
Floor - Specify the floor on which the workspace is located.
Floor Area - Specify the size of the floor area and specify the UOM for the area.
Employee - Specify the employee assigned to the workspace.
If multiple employees are specified, the Multiple Employees check box will be selected.
All specified employees are added to the Employees tab for this workspace record.
Parent Equipment - Specify any parent equipment associated with the workspace.
5. Select the Out of Service check box if the workspace cannot be used.
6. Click Save Record.

Associating furnishings with workspaces
Associate furnishings or parts, such as desks and chairs, with a workspace. This tab is the
same as the Parts Associated tab found on other screens.
To associate furnishings with a workspace:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Workspaces.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

265 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the workspace with which to associate furnishings, and then click the
Furnishings tab.
3. Specify the Part to associate and the Condition, Quantity, System Level, Assembly
Level, Component Level, Component Location, and Comments of the part
associated.
Condition can only be specified if the part is tracked by a condition.
4. Click Submit.

Associating employees with workspaces
To associate an employee with a workspace:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Workspaces.
2. Select the workspace for which to associate employees, and then click the Employees
tab.
3. Select an Employee to associated with the workspace.
You can only associate employees that have the Workspace Occupant check
box on the Employees screen selected.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing equipment associated with workspaces
To view equipment associated with a workspace:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Workspaces.
2. Select the workspace for which to view associated equipment, and then click the
Equipment tab.
3. View the associated equipment.

Viewing workspaces associated with equipment
To view workspaces associated with equipment:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

266 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Assets Healthcare
• Equipment > Properties Healthcare
• Equipment > Systems Healthcare
2. Select the equipment for which to view associated workspaces, and then click the
Workspaces tab.
3. View the associated workspaces.

Creating workspace moves
Move equipment, furnishings, and employees from one workspace to another. For example,
move specific employees and their computers from one floor of the office building to another.
To create a workspace move:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Workspace Moves.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify a description of the workspace move.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the workspace.
From Campus - Specify the campus from which you are moving.
From Building - Specify the building from which you are moving.
From Floor - Specify the floor from which you are moving.
From Room/Unit - Specify the room from which you are moving.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

267 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

From Workspace - Specify the workspace from which you are moving.
To Campus - Specify the campus to which you are moving.
To Building - Specify the building to which you are moving.
To Floor - Specify the new floor to which you are moving.
To Room/Unit - Specify the room to which you are moving.
To Workspace - Specify the workspace to which you are moving.
Status - Specify the status of the workspace move.
If changes are made to the Associations tab after the workspace move is
originally created, a warning message will appear when changing the status from Open
or Approved to Completed. If you accept these changes, then update the status of the
workspace as Completed and click Submit again.
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order-activity associated with the workspace
move.
Notes - Specify any notes associated with the workspace move.
5. Click Save Record.

Viewing associations for workspace moves
Employees, furnishings, and equipment associated with a From Workspace location for a
Workspace Move are copied to this tab. The selected Employees, Furnishings, and
Equipment are moved to the new workspace when the workspace move is completed.
To associate employees, furnishings, and equipment with a workspace move:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Workspace Moves.
2. Select the workspace move for which to edit associations, and then click the
Associations tab.
3. Select the Include in Move check box for all employees, furnishings, and equipment to
include in the workspace move.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

268 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Save Record.

Managing keys
Manage keys and rings of keys for equipment. Keys and rings of keys are assigned holders
who are the individuals to whom those keys have been issued.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Key Management.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the Key/Ring, Key Description, and Organization.
4. Specify this information:
Type - Select key or ring of keys.
Access Level - Optionally, select Change, Department, Master, or Grand Master as
the access level for the key or ring of keys.
Cabinet - Specify the cabinet in which the key is stored.
Position - Specify the position within the cabinet in which the key is stored.
5. Select the Lost checkbox if the key or ring of keys is lost.
6. Select the Out of Service checkbox if the key or ring of keys is out of service.
7. Optionally, specify the Parent Key, Supplier, Supplier Key Number, Manufacturer,
and Key Type of the key.
8. Specify this information:
Key Decode - Specify the code or number that identifies the depths of the cut for a key.
Employee - Specify the employee who is the holder of the key or ring of keys.
Issue Expiration Date - Specify the expiration date for the issue of the key or ring of
keys to the holder.
Holder Notes - Optionally, specify any notes for the holder of the key or ring of keys.
9. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

269 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Managing locks for keys
Manage locks for keys and rings of keys, and specify the equipment that is locked or
accessed using a specified key.
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Key Management.
2. Select the key or ring of keys for which to associate locks, and then click the Locks tab.
3. Click Add Lock.
4. Specify the Lock name and description.
5. Optionally, specify the Equipment, Department, Location, and Cylinder Number for
the lock.
6. Select the Out of Service checkbox if the lock is out of service.
7. Click Submit.

Associating keys with rings of keys
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Key Management.
2. Select the ring of keys record with which to associate keys, and then click the Ring
Keys tab.
3. Select a Key to associate to the ring and then specify a description.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing transactions for keys
View the transactions or issue and return of keys and rings of keys.
To view the transactions for keys and rings of keys:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Key Management.
2. Select the key or ring of keys for which to view transactions, and then click the
Transactions tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

270 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. View the transactions.

Viewing keys associated with equipment
View keys that are associated for equipment.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Assets Healthcare
• Equipment > Properties Healthcare
• Equipment > Systems Healthcare
• Equipment > Facilities
• Equipment > Rooms
• Equipment > Vehicles
2. Select the equipment for which to view associated keys, and then click the Keys tab.
3. View the keys that are associated with the equipment.

Viewing and modifying equipment information
Search for equipment records, and view and modify equipment information as necessary.

Viewing equipment costs
To view equipment costs:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

271 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the asset, position, or system for which to view costs, and then click the Costs
tab.
3. Click Refresh Cost Data.
4. View the cost information.
If the selected equipment is on the parent work order and a child work order,
then the system duplicates the child work order costs by rolling the child work order
costs up to the parent work order. Therefore, the system does not display the child work
order costs when viewing the costs for the parent work order on the Maintenance
Costs page.
Click Refresh Cost Data to see the most up-to-date cost information.
For linear equipment records, the system populates From Point and To Point based on
the entire length in the linear reference unit of measure of the equipment.
5. Specify this information:
From Point - Specify the point of the linear equipment record from which to view costs.
To Point - Specify the point of the linear equipment record to which to view costs.
6. Click Run. The system calculates and displays only those event costs that apply to the
entered segment. When calculating segment cost, the system assumes that costs were
accrued equally over the length of the work order. See the following example. WO 1657
was completed for I-85 from mile marker 5 to 10, and you want to view costs for I-85
from mile marker 5 to 6. The system displays WO 1657 in the list of equipment costs for
I-85, but displays its cost as $20. The system cannot calculate segmented work order
costs at a single point. See the following example:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

272 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You want to view costs for a segment of I-85. WO 1, WO 2, WO 3, WO 4, and WO 5 all
fall on or within the defined From Point and To Point. Therefore, the system displays
all five work orders on the Costs page. The system displays WO 3 and WO 4 because
they intersect at some point with the segment’s From Point and To Point; however, the
system displays their costs as $0. The system calculates and displays the segmented
costs for WO 1 and WO 2. The system displays the full cost of WO 5 because its length
coincides exactly with the segment’s length.

Viewing fuel costs for equipment
View the actual fuel costs related to a piece of equipment.
To view fuel costs for equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to view fuel costs, and then click the Fuel Costs tab.
3. View the fuel costs information.

Viewing equipment reservations
View equipment reservations for an asset, position, system, or location.
1. Select one of these options: .

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

273 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
2. Select the equipment for which to view equipment reservations, and then click the
Reservations tab.
3. View the reservations for the equipment.
4. Select a reservation and then click the reservation number to view the Reservation
details.

Viewing events and work orders for equipment
View the list of work orders and other events related to the equipment.
To view events and work orders for equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to view equipment work orders, and then click the
Events tab.
3. View the equipment work order and events information.
When you select a record in the grid, the system populates the associated work
order number next to Event. The work order number is a hyperlink to the actual work
order on the Work Orders screen.
Double-click on a record in the grid to hyperlink to the Work Orders form.
For linear equipment records, the system populates From Point and To Point based on
the entire length in the linear reference unit of measure of the equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

274 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
From Point - Specify the point of the linear equipment record from which to view
events.
To Point - Specify the point of the linear equipment record to which to view events.
5. Click Run. The system displays events that intersect at any point with the segment. For
example, the system displays a work order if its To Point intersects with the segment’s
From Point or if its From Point intersects with the segment’s To Point.

Viewing material usage
To view material usage:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the equipment for which to view material usage, and then click the Material
Usage tab.
3. View the material usage information.

Viewing purchase orders for equipment
View purchase orders for equipment to review a list of all purchase order lines for parts
associated with work orders for the equipment.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

275 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the asset, system, or position for which to view purchase orders, and then click
the Purchase Orders tab.
By default, all purchase order lines for the equipment that have not been
completely received are displayed.
If a purchase order line contains a multiple equipment work order, information about
how the purchase order is split among the equipment and related work order(s) is also
displayed.
3. View the purchase order information.

Viewing structure details for equipment
View structure details for equipment. The structure will display assets, positions, systems,
locations, component locations, and system, assembly, and component levels.
To view structure details for equipment:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Locations
2. Select the record for which to view the structure details, and then click the Structure
Details tab.
3. View the structure details.
4. Optionally, select one of the following options to change the focal point of the screen:
• Click Move to Top Level Asset to move the focal point to the highest-level asset.
• Click Move to Top Level Position to move the focal point to the highest-level
position.
• Click Move to Top Level System to move the focal point to the highest-level

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

276 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system.

Updating operational status for equipment
Identify the equipment that should be taken out of rotation for maintenance. This screen
shows equipment which have overdue preventive maintenance records, meaning
maintenance that should be performed has not yet been performed. Modify the operational
status of the equipment.
To update operations status for equipment:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Equipment Operational Status.
2. Select the equipment for which to update the operational status, and then click the
Record View tab.
3. Specify the Operational Status.
Equipment cannot be made operational if regulatory items exist with repairs
needed. The checklist items for the equipment must have a resolution of Repair
Completed or Temporary Repair with a Follow-up WO-Activity or Deferred Maintenance.
4. Click Save.

Viewing work orders for equipment in need of preventive
maintenance
View and verify details of work orders attached to equipment that should be taken out of
operations for preventive maintenance.
To view work orders for equipment in need of preventative maintenance:
1. Select Equipment > Additional Features > Equipment Operational Status.
2. Select the equipment for which to view the work orders, and then click the Work Orders
tab.
3. View the information.
When you select a record in the grid, the system populates the associated work order
number next to Work Order. The work order number is a hyperlink to the actual work

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

277 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

order on the Work Orders screen. However this screen displays all work orders
regardless of the status so if the work order has a status of Awaiting Release, the
hyperlink functionality will not work.
Double-click on a record in the grid to link to the Work Orders form.

Materials Management
The materials management module maintains materials inventory by providing an online
catalog of parts, stores, manufacturers, and suppliers. You can issue and return materials,
create pick tickets, perform physical inventories, manage the entire purchase order process
from creating requisitions to receiving parts, and automatically generate requisitions and
purchase orders based on low stock levels.

Setting up initial materials information
Set up initial materials information before using the materials management module.

Defining commodity codes
Define commodity codes to establish a method of classifying materials for purchasing and
inventory. Commodity codes can identify specific types of goods, such as fiber optics, fuses,
switches, etc., that can then be used to categorize specific parts in your inventory. Buyers can
then associate particular suppliers with these different commodities and send out requests for
quotes for the particular commodities. Storeroom and maintenance personnel can also use
commodity codes to quickly access stock information.
After defining a commodity, you can update the commodity record as necessary; however,
you cannot modify the Commodity or Organization for an existing commodity record.
To define commodity codes:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Commodities.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the commodity belongs if you use
multi-organization security.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

278 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Commodity - Specify a unique code identifying the commodity, and then enter a
description of the commodity in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the commodity. The classes shown belong to the COMM
entity. The system automatically populates Class Org.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure of the commodity.
Greenhouse Gas Emission Category - Select the greenhouse gas emission category
for the commodity.
Out of Service - Select to indicate that the commodity code is no longer in use. If you
select Out of Service, the system retains the commodity record, but it will no longer
appear in the lookups for commodities on other forms.
4. Click Save Record.

Recording greenhouse gas records for fuel types for commodities
Record CO2e emission data for fuel types to record the quantity of greenhouse gases emitted
to produce commodities.
To record greenhouse gas records for fuel types for commodities:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Commodities.
2. Select the commodity for which to record greenhouse gas records for fuel types, and
then click the Fuels tab.
3. Click Add Fuel.
4. Specify this information:
Fuel Type - Select the fuel type for the commodity.
Greenhouse Gas Emitted - Specify the greenhouse gas the fuel type emits.
Emission Amount - Specify the amount of greenhouse gas the fuel emits.
Date Effective - Specify the effective date this record is effective. Date Expired is
automatically populated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

279 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Defining currencies
In international markets, organizations are required to monitor the various currencies used
and the different exchange rates. The system contains many predefined currencies. Define
additional currencies as necessary.
Various parts of the system rely upon currency for computing transactions.
Therefore, even if you do not intend to use the system to calculate currencies for international
markets, you must at least enter a base currency and attach an exchange rate of "1" to it.
To define currencies:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Currencies.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Currency - Specify a unique code identifying the currency, and then enter a description
of the currency in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the currency. The classes shown belong to the CURR entity.
The system automatically populates Class Org.
Out of Service - Select to remove this currency from the currency lookups.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining exchange rates for currencies
Define the exchange rate for a currency by entering a base currency and exchange rate for
the currency.
Define the base currency in the DEFCURR parameter of the Install Parameters
form.
The system uses exchange rates to convert foreign currency amounts to base currency using
the following equation:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

280 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

base currency amount=foreign currency amount/exchange rate
Example:
Your base currency is USD. You have created a purchase order for 50 filters at 9 EUR. The
price of the air filters must now be converted to USD. Assuming that the exchange rate is 1.2
EURO-USD, the system calculates the following conversion:
50 air filters @ 9 EUR = 450 EUR;
450 EUR/1.2 = 375 USD
To define exchange rate for currencies:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Currencies.
2. Select the currency with which to associate an exchange rate, and then click the
Exchange Rates tab.
3. Click Add Exchange Rate.
4. Specify this information:
Base Currency - Specify the base currency against which to calculate the selected
foreign currency. The system automatically displays the currency associated with the
organization of the current session. The system displays only those currencies
associated with organizations to which you have access.
You can only define exchange rates for multiple currencies if the MULTIORG
installation parameter is set to YES.
Exchange Rate - Specify the exchange rate for the currency.
Start Date - Specify the date for which the exchange rate is effective. The system
automatically displays the current date.
End Date - Specify the date for which the exchange rate is no longer effective.
5. Click Submit.
Because exchange rates change frequently, update currency information often.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

281 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining lots
Define lots for materials as necessary. Manufacturers often produce items in volume batches,
called lots. Lots are a numeric or alphanumeric method of indicating that an item is a member
of a group of items that are produced at the same time.
Depending on the setting of the LOTNRG installation parameter, the system can automatically
generate lot numbers when you receive items. Set the installation parameter LOTNRG to one
of the following values:
• T
The system generates a lot code for each receipt (Transaction).
• P
The system generates a lot code for each part checked by lot. These items are
designated by having Track by Lot selected on the Parts form.
The SHOWLOT installation parameter determines whether lots are used for stock
information for parts. The default setting for SHOWLOT is Y. If SHOWLOT is set N, the
system disables Lot and it is not displayed on forms.
A dash indicates that no parts are lot-controlled.
The default setting for lot numbering is P. In most cases, this is the ideal lot number method.
Items requiring lot tracking receive your lot assignment; those items that do not need lot
tracking are simply placed in the stock system as is. HxGN EAM recommends setting the
value to T for companies whose incoming parts and supplies should be lot-tracked at all times
for safety, regulatory, and quality control purposes.
The lot numbers assigned by the system are internal numbers. Cross-reference the internal
numbers assigned by the system to the manufacturer’s lot numbers to track defective parts
when notified by the manufacturer.
Define lot codes to identify the exact lot or batch number when stocking parts in stores.
After defining a lot, you can update the lot record as necessary. You cannot modify the Lot or
Organization for an existing lot record.
1. Select Materials > Setup > Lots.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

282 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the lot belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Lot - Specify a unique code identifying the lot, and then enter a description of the lot in
the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the lot. The classes shown belong to the LOT entity.
Expiration Date - Specify the expiration date of the lot.
Manufacturer Lot - Specify the manufacturer’s lot number.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining tax codes
Define tax codes to apply to materials and purchases. Tax codes represent the definition of
tax coding structure that consists of a tax rate type, a tax rate code, a value for tax rate code,
a tax code, and a value for the tax code.
Tax code records represent the combination of tax rate codes and tax code information that
establish a structure that will apply all of the applicable taxes to materials and purchases
based on transaction dates and the established tax structure created within a tax code. You
can create any number of tax codes to fit any tax situation. You can also enter multiple rate
codes for each tax code, as necessary.
Define tax codes by creating a tax code structure in the following order.

Step 1. Defining tax rate types
Define tax rate types to specify tax rate classifications corresponding to base tax rates, such
as taxable and nontaxable. Use tax rate type codes to identify the type of tax, such as sales
tax, internal tax, excise tax, or an import tax.
To define tax rate types:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Tax Rate Types.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

283 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Tax Rate Type - Specify a unique code identifying the tax rate type, and then specify a
description of the tax rate type in the adjacent field.
4. Click Save Record.

Step 2. Defining tax rates
Define tax rates to build the second level of tax coding. Before creating a tax rate, create tax
rate types on the Tax Rate Type form.
Create a tax rate, such as "SC TAX" to represent a South Carolina state tax, and then
associate that tax rate with a tax rate type, such as a sales or excise tax rate type. The
combination of a tax rate type and a tax rate represent the definition of a tax rate code. You
can also indicate whether to include the tax rate code in stock valuation.
To define tax rates:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Tax Rates.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Tax Rate - Specify a unique code identifying the tax rate, and then specify a description
of the tax rate in the adjacent field.
Type - Specify the type of tax rate.
Include Part Taxes in Stock Value - Select to include tax in inventory calculations of
stock value.
Include Service Taxes in WO Cost - Select to include tax in service calculations of
work order costs.
4. Click Save Record.

Step 3. Defining values for tax rates

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

284 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define values for tax rates to specify the tax rate percentage and the dates on which the tax
period begins and ends.
To define values for tax rates:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Tax Rates.
2. Select the tax rate for which to define values and then click the Values tab.
3. Click Add Value.
4. Specify this information:
Start Date - Specify the tax rate’s effective date.
End Date - Specify the tax rate’s expiration date.
Percentage - Specify the tax percentage.
5. Click Submit.
To delete a value, select the value to delete, and then click Delete Value.

Step 4. Defining tax codes
Define tax codes to specify a code under which to group tax rates together to simplify taxing
materials.
Tax code records represent the combination of each of the applicable tax rates and their
values. To define a tax code, specify a code and description for the tax code, and then
associate all of the tax rates that are applicable for the tax code. You can create tax codes to
fit any tax situation as necessary, and you can associate multiple tax rates for each tax code.
To define tax codes:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Tax Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the tax code belongs if you use multiorganization security.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

285 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Tax Code - Specify a unique code identifying the tax, and then specify a description of
the tax code in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the tax code. The classes shown belong to the TAX entity.
4. Click Save Record.

Step 5. Defining rates for tax codes
Define rates for tax codes to specify the tax rate(s) to include in the tax code. For example, a
tax code for South Carolina might include a federal sales tax, state sales tax, and city sales
tax.
The system calculates the sum of all the tax rates specified for the tax code and displays the
value in Total Tax % on the Record View page of the Tax Code form.
To define rates for tax codes:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Tax Codes.
2. Select the tax code for which to define rates, and then click the Rates tab.
3. Click Add Rate.
4. Specify this information:
Rate - Specify the rate used with this tax. The system automatically populates the rate
description and Percentage.
5. Click Submit.
Currently, taxes cannot be applied on a per piece basis. Taxes are determined
as a percentage of the purchase price.
To remove a rate, select the rate to remove, and then click Remove Rate.

Defining reasons for return
Define reasons for return based on the most common reasons for which you must return
parts. When returning parts to the supplier, the system allows you to select a reason for
return. Predefined reasons for returns enable you to track return trends.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

286 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To define reasons for return:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Reasons for Return.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Reason for Return - Specify a unique code identifying the reason for return, and then
enter a description of the reason for return in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the reason for return. The system automatically populates
Class Org.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining units of measure
Measurements for storing and issuing stock items can depend on the item itself or on the
supplier. Cable, for example, is generally measured in feet. Liquids can be measured by the
bottle, barrel, or gallon. Screws might be measured according to box or pound.
Measurements can vary within your own organization. Perhaps you must order widgets from
a vendor in 24-item cases (the purchase unit of measure). Inventory, on the other hand,
stocks widgets as single items (the inventory or stock-keeping unit of measure).
Define various measurements for different purchasing and inventory items. All system store
transactions are based on inventory units of measure (how the items are actually stored). All
quantities referred to on the bill of materials are also based on inventory units of measure.
When purchasing items in units of measure different from that in which you stock them,
convert the unit of measurement. When the inventory unit of measure and the purchase unit
of measure are exactly the same, the conversion factor is 1. If they are not the same, use the
following formula:
purchase UOM x conversion = issue UOM
(1 box of widgets x 10 = 10 widgets)
When the buyer sends out requests for quotes to suppliers, the supplier might provide a price
based on a unit of measure that is different than the purchase unit of measure (which could

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

287 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

be true due to volume discounts, for instance). This is the quotation UOM, and you then need
to supply a conversion factor between the quotation UOM and the purchase UOM when
creating the purchase order or requisition.
The system follows ISO recommendations and comes with many units of measure
installed.
1. Select Materials > Setup > Units of Measure.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
UOM - Specify a unique code identifying the measurement, and then enter a description
of the measurement in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the unit of measurement.
SOA UOM - Specify the Infor SOA unit of measurement for which to associate to this
unit of measurement.
Out of Service - Select to prevent the UOM from being displayed in lookups.
You cannot delete a unit of measurement if it is being used elsewhere in the
system. If you want to hide the UOM in the system lookups, select Out of Service. This
feature is especially useful for discarding many of the predefined ISO units that you may
never use.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining conversions for units of measure
Define the conversion factor for a selected UOM. A UOM may have multiple Conversion
Factor assignments.
From UOM = Conversion Factor * To UOM
1. Select Materials > Setup > Units of Measure.
2. Select the UOM for which to define conversion, and then click the Conversion tab.
3. Click Add Conversion Factor. The system automatically populates From UOM.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

288 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Conversion Factor - Specify a number for the conversion factor. If your UOM is a box
that includes 100 cups, you can select 100 as the Conversion Factor and cups as the To
UOM.
To UOM - Specify the UOM to which to apply the conversion factor.
5. Click Submit.

Adding alternate units of measure
Translate a vendor's UOM to the United Nations standard UOM.
Translation of UOM values on part lines imported from iProcure requisitions or
purchase orders can be enabled with the CNVIPUOM installation parameter.
1. Select Materials > Setup > Units of Measure.
2. Select the unit of measure for which to add an alternate, and then click the Alternate
UOM tab.
3. Click Add.
4. Specify this information:
Alternate UOM - Specify an alternate value for the unit of measure.
5. Click Submit.

Understanding time-based inventory valuation (LIFO/FIFO)
You can set up and initialize stock using the last in first out (LIFO) and first in first out (FIFO)
inventory valuation methods. LIFO and FIFO are both time-based price types. FIFO inventory
pricing mandates that you will consume the materials purchased first before using the most
recently purchased materials. LIFO pricing mandates that you will consume the most recently
purchased materials before using the materials that were purchased first.
LIFO and FIFO are both storeroom price types that require you to set your pricing level on the
store level. Pricing level is defined by the PRICELEV installation parameter, which must be
set to S for store-level pricing.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

289 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You can set LIFO or FIFO as your pricing method for each store created on the Stores form;
however, you can still modify price types for parts within a LIFO/FIFO store using a price type
other than LIFO/FIFO, such as average price, last price, or standard price. The default price
type for a store is determined by the PRICETYP installation parameter.
You can set PRICETYP on the Install Parameters form; however, the parameter
only determines the default price type that the system automatically displays for Price Type
when you are creating a store on the Stores form. Modify the price type for each store as
necessary.
When you create stock with any price type using the Parts form or the Equipment forms (for
equipment defined with In store status), the system updates the R5BINSTOCK table with the
increase in quantity, and it also creates a receipt transaction in the R5TRANSACTIONS and
R5TRANSLINES tables. You can view the receipt transaction on the PO Receipts form.
Because all receipt transactions require a supplier, the system automatically inserts an
asterisk (*) as the supplier for the receipt, and the default description for each of these receipt
transactions is ‘Stock initialization.’ If you are using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing method, the
system also creates a record for all stock initialization in the R5FIFO table to ensure that it
uses the appropriate price for all future issues of stock items from stores.
The R5FIFO table stores the part, price, quantity, store, and transaction date for each receipt
transaction, as well as the purchase order and purchase order line for all LIFO/FIFO stock
received from a purchase order. The transaction date indicates the date the stock is inserted
into inventory upon which future LIFO/FIFO transactions are based. For every transaction that
increases stock, the system inserts a new record in the R5FIFO table. For every transaction
that decreases stock, the system locates the appropriate record(s) to update or delete based
on the transaction date. For FIFO pricing, the system locates the record that was inserted into
inventory first. For LIFO pricing, the system locates the record that was most recently inserted
into inventory.
The system revalues the price of materials based on LIFO/FIFO pricing as transactions
involving stock occur. The system displays the current price for LIFO/FIFO stock in Stock
Value on the Store page of the Parts form. See the following scenarios for more information
about how the system prices for different types of inventory transactions for the LIFO/FIFO
pricing methods.
FIFO pricing is used in the examples for each of the following scenarios. If you are
using LIFO pricing, the system handles LIFO pricing for each example in the same manner;
however, it locates the record that was inserted into inventory most recently to calculate the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

290 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

appropriate price, rather than locating the record that was inserted into inventory first.
Scenario 1: Issuing parts to work orders (LIFO/FIFO)

When issuing parts from stores to work orders using the Work orders form, and when you are
using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing method, the system calculates the transaction price of issued
parts using the R5FIFO table, rather than retrieving the base price from the R5PARTS or
R5STOCK table.
If you have selected FIFO as your pricing method, the system locates the oldest part with the
earliest insertion date in the R5FIFO table and attempts to fulfill the demanded quantity of the
part on the work order. If the quantity of the first record is not sufficient to fulfill the demanded
quantity of the part on the work order, the system issues the available quantity of the first
record to the work order, and then locates the next record inserted into inventory in the
R5FIFO table. The system continues to locate and issue the parts from the R5FIFO table,
issuing the oldest parts first until the requested quantity of the part is fulfilled for the work
order.
The system records the transaction price of the LIFO/FIFO issue to the work order using the
price of the appropriate part inserted into the R5FIFO table. If the system uses more than one
record from the R5FIFO table to fulfill the quantity of the issue, then it calculates the price of
the issue using the weighted average of the price of the R5FIFO records used to fulfill the
issue. However, the system inserts a record of the original issue price and quantity of the part
issued in the R5ISSUES table to preserve a record of the original issue
price of a part should the issued part need to be returned to store in the future. See the
example below for more information about how the system handles LIFO/FIFO pricing for
issuing parts to work orders.
Example:

Your pricing method is FIFO. You have created a work order that creates demand for 10 air
filters. Presently you have 19 air filters in stock with different insertion dates and prices. At the
time of issue, the R5FIFO table contains the following information:

Insertion date

1-APR-2002

Quantity in store

4

Price

7 USD

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

291 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

7-MAY-2002

3

8 USD

10-JUN-2002

8

16 USD

25-JUN-2002

4

18 USD

The Insertion date column in the table above indicates the date the stock was
received into inventory.
To fulfill the requested quantity of the air filters for the work order, the system locates the 4
parts inserted into stock on 1-APR-2002 at 7 USD each, inserts a record of 4 parts at 7 USD
into the R5ISSUES table, and then deletes the record of the 4 parts at 7 USD from the
R5FIFO table. The system then locates the 3 parts inserted into stock on 7-MAY-2002 at 8
USD each, inserts a record of the 3 parts at 8 USD into the R5ISSUES table, and then
deletes the original record of the 3 parts from the R5FIFO table. The system then locates the
8 parts inserted into stock on 10-JUN-2002 at 16 USD, inserts a record of 3 parts into the
R5ISSUES table, and updates the quantity of the 10-JUN-2002 record to 5 in the R5FIFO
table. The system then creates the issue to the work order and calculates the transaction
price of the issue using the following equation:
[(4 air filters @ 7 USD) + (3 air filters @ 8 USD) + (3 air filters @
16 USD)] / 10 = 10 USD
After completing the issue to the work order, the R5ISSUES and R5FIFO tables contain the
following information:

R5ISSUES

R5FIFO

4 air filters @ 7 USD

5 air filters @ 16 USD

3 air filters @ 8 USD

4 air filters @ 18 USD

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

292 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3 air filters @ 16 USD
Scenario 2: Receiving parts (LIFO/FIFO)

When receiving parts into inventory using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing method, the system
automatically inserts a record for the received part into the R5FIFO table upon approval of the
receipt.
When creating and approving a receipt using the PO Receipts form, the system associates
the stock record inserted in the R5FIFO table with the part on the appropriate purchase order
line. Associating the stock record with the purchase order line in the R5FIFO table records the
quantity of the part received at the purchased unit price. The purchase unit price includes tax
and/or any additional charges for the part if you have set the part price to include tax and/or
additional charges.
Scenario 3: Returning parts from a work order to a store (LIFO/FIFO)

When returning parts from work orders to stores using the Work orders form, and when you
are using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing method, the system attempts to locate an equivalent
issue in the R5ISSUES table for the same store and part from which to make the return. The
system also attempts to locate the same work order and activity or equipment or project to
which the part was originally issued. If the equivalent issue exists in the R5ISSUES table, the
system uses the issue price as the price of the return. If the equivalent issue does not fulfill
the entire return, the system returns the remaining quantity of the part using its current
average price.
As the system locates issues to fulfill the return, it deletes the used issues from the
R5ISSUES table and inserts a record into the R5FIFO table using the date and time of the
original receipt stored in the record in the R5ISSUES table. If the system cannot fulfill the
return quantity using records from the R5ISSUES table, it inserts a new record in the R5FIFO
table using the current system date and time as the transaction date. If the system locates the
issues to fulfill the return quantity, it deletes or reduces the quantity of the issues used for the
return from the R5ISSUES table.
The system calculates the transaction price of the LIFO/FIFO return from a work order,
equipment, or project to store using the weighted average of the prices of the parts used from
the R5ISSUES table. If equivalent issues exist to fulfill the return quantity, the system uses
the date of the original R5FIFO records stored in the ISS_FIFODATE column of the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

293 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

R5ISSUES table as the transaction date recorded for the record(s) inserted into the R5FIFO
table for the return. If no equivalent issues exist to fulfill the return, the system uses the
current date. See the example below for more information about how the system handles
LIFO/FIFO pricing for returning parts from a work order to a store.
Example:

Your pricing method is FIFO. You need to return 10 air filters from a work order to store. At the
time of the return, the R5ISSUES and R5FIFO table contain the following information:

R5ISSUES (for this work order)

R5FIFO

3 air filters @ 8 USD 4-MAY-2002

1 air filter @ 8
USD 7-MAY-2002

5 air filters @ 10 USD 1-APR-2002

2 air filters @ 7
USD 29MAY-2002

2 air filters @ 9
USD 1-JUN-2002

The date displayed in the R5ISSUES column in the table above indicates the date
the stock was received into inventory.
To cover the return quantity, the system locates the 5 parts inserted into R5ISSUES on
1-APR-2002 at 10 USD each, returns them from the work order to store, inserts a record of 5
parts at 10 USD into the R5FIFO table, and deletes the record of the 5 parts at 10 USD from
the R5ISSUES table. The system then locates the 3 parts inserted into R5ISSUES on
4-MAY-2002 at 8 USD each, returns them from the work order to store, inserts a record of the
3 parts at 8 USD into the R5FIFO table, and deletes the original record of the 3 parts from the
R5ISSUES table.
There are no equivalent issues remaining from which to fulfill the return quantity, and 2 parts
are still needed to fulfill the return quantity of 10, so the system then locates the records that
existed in the R5FIFO table before the return and calculates the weighted average price of

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

294 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the parts using the following equation:
[(1 air filter @ 8 USD) + (2 air filters @ 7 USD) + (2 air filters @
9 USD)] / 5 = 8 USD
The system returns the remaining 2 parts using the price of 8 USD and inserts a new record
of 2 parts at 8 USD in the R5FIFO table.
The system calculates the transaction price of the return using the following equation:
[(5 air filters @ 10 USD) + (3 air filters @ 8 USD) + (2 air filters
@ 8 USD)] / 10 = 9 USD
After completing the return from work order to store, the R5ISSUES and R5FIFO tables
contain the following information:

R5ISSUES

R5FIFO

5 air filters @ 10 USD 1-APR-2002

3 air filters @ 8 USD 4-MAY-2002

1 air filter @ 8 USD 7-MAY-2002

2 air filters @ 7 USD 29-MAY-2002

2 air filters @ 9 USD 1-JUN-2002

2 air filters @ 8 USD 4-JUN-2002
(The transaction date for this record is
updated to the current system date
and time.)

Scenario 4: Pricing store-to-store transactions (LIFO/FIFO)

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

295 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

When moving parts between stores, you can do so using the following forms: the Quick
Store-to-Store Transfers form, the Store-to-Store Issues form, the Store-to-Store
Requisitions form, and the Store-to-Store Receipts form. The system creates two
transaction lines for the store-to-store transaction. Initially, the system creates an issue
transaction in the issuing store of the parts to transfer. The system also creates a receipt
transaction in the receiving store. If you are using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing method when
moving parts between stores; the system also creates a record in the R5FIFO table for the
receiving store; however, this issue transaction does not create a record in the R5ISSUES
table for the issuing store.
To avoid creating transactions that result in a price of zero for store-to-store materials
movements, you must specify a value for Price when you issue a part using the Quick Storeto-Store Transfer form.
The system automatically populates Price with the average LIFO/FIFO price of the part in the
issuing store. You can modify Price as necessary. The price of the issue transaction in the
issuing store is equal to the average price of the records in the R5FIFO table that are affected
by the transfer.
If the part being transferred does not already exist in the receiving store, then the system
inserts a new record of the part and the receiving store in the R5FIFO table priced at the
value specified for Price on the Quick Store-to-Store Transfer form or on the PO Receipts
form. The system also creates a receipt transaction for the quantity transferred and the value
specified for Price.
Scenario 5: Pricing returns to suppliers (LIFO/FIFO)

When returning parts purchased on a purchase order from a store to a supplier using the
Supplier Returns form, and when you are using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing method, the
system attempts to locate a record of the same part on the original purchase order line from
which to calculate the return price of the part in the R5FIFO table. If the system locates a
record of the part on the purchase order line in the R5FIFO table, then the system uses the
original price of the part on the purchase order line as the return price. If the return
quantity cannot be completely covered by the quantity of the part located on the purchase
order line in the R5FIFO table, the system continues to attempt to locate matching records of
the part to return on purchase order line records in the R5FIFO table until the return quantity
is completely covered.
If the system cannot locate enough matching records to fulfill the return quantity, then the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

296 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

outstanding quantity of the return is fulfilled using other available records of the same part in
the R5FIFO table that are not associated with the original purchase order line for which you
are returning the parts. However, the system still uses the appropriate first or last record
depending on whether your price type is LIFO or FIFO. The system deletes or reduces the
quantity of all the records used to fulfill the return quantity from the R5FIFO table.
See the example below for more information about how the system handles LIFO/FIFO
pricing for pricing returns to suppliers.
Example:

Your pricing method is FIFO. You need to return 10 air filters that were originally purchased
on purchase order number 10003 at 8 USD each. At the time of the return, the R5FIFO table
contains the following information:

Insertion date

Quantity in store

Price

Purchase order number

1-APR-2002

2

18 USD

7-MAY-2002

9

8 USD

10003

10-JUN-2002

8

9.50 USD

10004

The Insertion date column in the table above indicates the date the stock was
received into inventory.
The system locates the 9 parts at 8 USD from the original purchase order 10003 for the return
and deletes this record from the R5FIFO table, because there is no remaining quantity of this
part for this R5FIFO record.
There are no matching records of the part on a purchase order line from which to fulfill the
return quantity, and 1 part is still needed to fulfill the return quantity of 10, so the system then
locates the first record of 2 parts at 18 USD that were received into inventory and inserted into
the R5FIFO table on 1-APR-2002. The system updates the quantity from 2 to 1 for the return.
The last part is returned at the price of 18 USD.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

297 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system calculates the price of the return using the following equation:
[(9 air filters @ 8 USD each) + (1 air filter @ 18 USD each)] / 10 =
9 USD
After completing the return from store to the supplier, the R5FIFO table contains the following
information:

Insertion date

Quantity in store

Price

1-APR-2002

1

18 USD

10-JUN-2002

8

9.50
USD

Purchase order number

10004

Scenario 6: Pricing internal repair receipts (LIFO/FIFO)

The system handles pricing of internal repair receipts in much the same manner as a normal
receipt from a vendor. See Scenario 2. Repairable spares can be repaired internally and
externally. The forms used to receive repairable spares and the receipt process will vary
depending on whether the part is being repaired externally or internally. When creating
receipts for parts repaired internally, use the Internal Repair Receipts form.
When creating receipts for parts repaired externally, use the PO Receipts form. See the
examples below for more information about how the system handles LIFO/FIFO pricing for
parts repaired internally and externally.
Example 1:

You are receiving a part repaired internally. The system updates the available quantity of the
part in inventory by the received quantity and inserts a record of the part and the Repair Price
in the R5FIFO table when the internal repair receipt is approved.
Example 2:

You are receiving a part repaired externally. The system updates the available quantity of the
part in inventory by the received quantity and inserts a record of the part and the receipt unit
price in the R5FIFO table when the PO receipt is approved.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

298 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You can view and/or edit stock value information created by transactions for all
LIFO/FIFO stock on the Stock Value page of the Parts form.
Scenario 7: Pricing positive and negative adjustments (LIFO/FIFO)

When signing off stocktake and updating quantities using the Physical Inventory form, the
system handles LIFO/FIFO pricing of negative adjustments the same way that it handles
regular issues.
For positive adjustments, the system calculates the average price of the part in the store that
is adjusted by the stocktake. Then the system inserts a record of the positive adjustment
quantity at the calculated average price and a transaction record of the positive adjustment in
the R5FIFO table.
For scrapped repairable spare parts, the system does not update the price for
external or internal repairs.

Creating stores
Create stores to define specific locations for storing parts. When creating stores, the system
automatically populates the Price Type for the store with the value specified for the
PRICETYP installation parameter, but you can modify the price type for each store as
necessary.
You can set the store pricing method to Average price, Last price, Standard price, first in first
out (FIFO), or last in first out (LIFO). However, you can only set Price Type to FIFO or LIFO if
the PRICELEV installation parameter is set to S.
To create stores:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Stores.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the store belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Stores cannot belong to common organizations.
Store - Specify a unique code identifying the store, and then enter a description of the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

299 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

store in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the store. The classes shown belong to the STOR entity.
Enterprise Location - Specify an enterprise location for the store.
You can only associate Enterprise Location to one Store.
Price Type - Select the price type for the store.
If the PRICELEV installation parameter is set to P, Price Type is hidden, and
the system sets the price type for the store based on the setting of the PRICETYP
installation parameter.
Location - Specify the store’s location within the facility.
Auto. Req. Status - Select the status code for a part requisition when quantities fall
below a specified minimum. Auto. Req. Status determines the status that is
automatically assigned to the system-generated requisitions. You may want to set Auto.
Req. Status to automatically assign a status of Approved to requisitions with set reorder
points and approved reorder quantities.
Parent Store - Specify the parent store.
Copy Parent’s Reorder Details - Select to copy stock management information from
the parent store to the child store when creating a stock record in the child store.
If you select a parent store, the system automatically populates Minimum Level,
Reorder Level, Order Quantity, and Preferred Supplier or Preferred Store for the
new stock record with the values from the stock record of the parent store.
Copy Parent’s Reorder Details is enabled only if you have selected a value
for Parent Store. Additionally, a stock record must already exist for the store selected
as the parent store from which to copy the parent reorder details, and the DEFSTOCK
installation parameter must be set to YES.
Out of Service - Select to indicate that the store is no longer in use. If you select Out of
Service, the system retains the store record, but it will no longer appear in the lookups
for stores on other forms. However, you can continue to modify information on the store
record as necessary.
Selecting Out of Service will not affect any unfinished transactions for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

300 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

store, such as requisitions, purchase orders, purchase order receipts, part issues and
returns, etc.
Parts Tax Code - Specify the tax code for the part used on the Parts tab of the PO line.
Services Tax Code - Specify the tax code for the service used on the Services tab of
the PO line.
Sun., Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs., Fri., Sat. - Select to indicate the working days for the
store that are to be included when the system is counting the number of days for which
to generate demand-based requisitions based on the Reserved Parts Buffer (Days).
For example, if you select Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs., and Fri. as the working days for
the store, then the system will only count those days, and Saturdays and Sundays will
be excluded from the count. If the Reserved Parts Buffer (Days) is set to 60 and you
select Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs., and Fri. as the working days for the store, the system
will actually be including part-demand on generated requisitions for a period that is
longer than 60 days in actuality but only 60 days in terms of the selected working days
for the store.
Lead Time (Days) - Specify the number of days needed internally for inventory
deliveries or transfers at the store. Lead Time (Days) is only used for store-to-store
requisitions.
If you also define or have defined Lead Time (Days) on the Stores page of the
Parts form, that value overrides the value entered here on the Record View page of the
Stores form.
Internal Lead Time (Days) - Specify the number of days needed internally for inventory
deliveries or transfers at the store. Internal Lead Time (Days) is used for store-to-store
requisitions that have automatically generated from a batch report.
Specifying an Internal Lead Time (Days) enables you to factor in an additional lead
time required for approvals or processing that must be considered when calculating the
time needed to receive inventory. The value specified for Internal Lead Time (Days)
will be considered in conjunction with the Lead Time (Days) specified for the supplier
on the Record View page of the Suppliers form. If you know that you require three
days for a purchase order to be approved internally for this store, you can enter 3 as the
value for Internal Lead Time (Days) to accommodate the lead time when generating
demand-based requisitions for this store.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

301 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Reserved Parts Buffer (Days) - Specify the maximum number of days for the system
to consider when generating requisitions for reserved parts. Reserved Parts Buffer
(Days) is only used for automatic requisition generation.
For example, if you specify 60 as the value for Reserved Parts Buffer (Days), then the
system will only include parts for which there is demand within 60 days of the date on
which the requisitions are generated.
To further illustrate the function of the Reserved Parts Buffer (Days): A scheduler
within your organization creates and releases a preventive maintenance work order on
which there are part reservations that create demand for the parts on the work order.
However, because the due date for the work order is six months from the date on which
you are generating requisitions, the demand for the parts will also be six months.
Therefore, since the Reserved Parts Buffer (Days) is set to 60, the system will not
consider the part demand created by the released preventive maintenance work order
when generating requisitions even though the released work order has already created
demand for the parts required for the work order, because the demand for the parts on
the work order extends beyond the specified buffer of 60 days.
Label Printer - Specify the default printer for printing barcoding labels.
Label Template (Issue) - Specify the default label template for printing barcoding labels
for issues.
Label Template (Receipt) - Specify the default label template for printing barcoding
labels for purchase order receipts.
Label Template (Non-PO Receipt) - Specify the default label template for printing
barcoding labels for non-purchase order receipts.
Label Template (Store-to-Store Receipt) - Specify the default label template for
printing barcoding labels for store-to-store receipts.
Label Template (Warranty Return) - Specify the default label template for printing
barcoding labels for warranty returns.
Label Template (Held Items on PO Receipt) - Specify the default label template for
printing barcoding labels for held items on PO receipts.
Label Template (Held Items on Non-PO Receipt) - Specify the default label template
for printing barcoding labels for held items on Non-PO receipts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

302 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Label Template (Held Items on Stock Transfer) - Specify the default label template for
printing barcoding labels for held items on stock transfers.
Label Server - Specify the server for printing barcoding labels.
4. Click Save Record.

Creating bins for stores
Create bins for stores to identify specific locations where parts can be stored. Bins are useful
for locating and issuing parts and for supporting physical inventory counts of part holdings.
To create bins for stores:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Stores.
2. Select the store for which to create bins, and then click the Bins tab.
3. Click Add Bin.
4. Specify this information:
Bin - Specify a unique code identifying the bin.
Description - Specify a description of the bin.
For Stock - Select this check box to indicate that the bin is for stock items.
For Held Items - Select this check box to indicate that the bin is for held items.
Out of Service - Select to indicate that the bin is no longer in use.
You can only select Out of Service if there is no quantity of a part/parts on
hand in the bin.
5. Click Submit.
To delete a bin, select the bin to delete, and then click Delete Bin. You can only
delete a bin if there are no existing part records associated with the bin.

Viewing part reservations for stores

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

303 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View part reservations for parts in store that are reserved or allocated.
1. Select Materials > Setup > Stores.
2. Select the store for which to view part reservations, and then click the Reservations
tab.
3. View the reservations for the part in the selected store.

Viewing bin stock
View bin stock per lot. For each lot, the system displays parts contained within that lot and
specifies their store and bin location.
To view bin stock:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Lots.
2. Select the lot for which to view bin stock, and then click the Bins Per Store tab.
3. View the bin stock information.

Viewing archived transactions for stores
To view archived transactions for stores:
1. Select Materials > Stores.
2. Select the store for which to view archived transactions, and then click the Archived
Transactions tab.
3. View the archived transactions.

Viewing stock for stores
View stock for stores to view information about parts held in specific stores, such as the part
number, the bin/lot combination for the part, and the quantity of the part on hand.
To view stock for stores:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Stores.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

304 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the store for which to view stock, and then click the Stock tab.
3. View the stock information for the parts held in the selected store.

Viewing stock levels by store
To view stock levels by store:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Stores.
2. Select the store for which to view stock levels, and then click the Overview tab.
3. View the stock level information.

Viewing stock transactions per store
View stock transactions per store. The system maintains a history of every stock transaction
per store. View information such as when a specific part was received to stock, how much the
part cost, and to what purchase order the part belonged.
To view stock transactions per store:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Stores.
2. Select the store for which to view stock transactions, and then click the Transactions
tab.
3. View the stock transactions.
The system displays the following information for each stock transaction in the
Transactions list:

Field

Description

Type

The type of transaction with which the part was associated
such as Stock take, Issue or return, Goods received, etc.

Part

The code of the part with which the transaction was associated

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

305 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

The description of the Part associated with the stock
transaction

Part Org.

The organization of the Part associated with the stock
transaction

Transaction Qty.

The quantity of the part involved in the stock transaction.
Positive quantities designate an increase in the quantity of the
part in inventory, such as a receipt. Negative quantities indicate
a decrease in the quantity of the part in inventory, such as an
issue or return.

Date

The date on which the stock transaction occurred

Price

The price of the part the system used for the transaction

Originator

If the part transaction is an issue, the system displays the User
ID of the user from whom the stock transaction originated.

Issued To

If the part transaction is an issue, the system displays the
Employee code of the person to which the part associated with
the stock transaction was issued.

Class

The class of the part the system used for the stock transaction

Class Org.

The organization to which the class used for the stock
transaction belongs

Transaction Number

The number identifying the stock transaction

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

306 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Line

The line number of the part on the stock transaction involving
the part such as the line number on the requisition, purchase
order, work order, and so forth.

Status

The current status of the stock transaction involving the part

Pick Ticket

If the stock transaction was associated with a pick ticket, the
system displays the number.

Work Order

If the stock transaction was associated with a work order, the
system displays the number.

Activity

If the stock transaction was associated with a work order, the
system displays the activity on the work order for which the
part transaction occurred.

Purchase Order

If the stock transaction was associated with a purchase order,
the system displays the number.

Purchase Order Org.

The organization of the purchase order associated with the part
transaction

Requisition

If the stock transaction was associated with a requisition, the
system displays this number.

Supplier

The supplier for the requisition associated with the part
transaction

Bin

The bin involved in the part transaction. For issue transactions,
the system displays the bin location from which the part is
issued. For receipts, the system displays the bin location into

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

307 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

which the part is received.

Lot

The lot of the part involved in the transaction

Asset ID

The code of the equipment associated with the transaction

Asset Org.

The organization of the Asset ID associated with the stock
transaction

Parent Work Order

If the transaction for the store is associated with a MEC work
order, then the system displays the number identifying the
parent multiple equipment work order associated with the
transaction.
The system enables you to search for all transactions
associated with a multiple equipment work order by defining a
Quick Filter using Parent Work Order as part of the filter
criteria.

Scrapped Qty.

The number of repairable spare parts that were scrapped for
the stock transaction

Warranty

Indicates whether the part involved in the transaction is
covered under warranty

Consignment

Indicates whether the stock transaction was associated with a
part under consignment

Direct

Indicates whether the stock transaction was associated with a
direct purchase item received directly to a work order,
purchase order, and so forth

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

308 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating and managing parts information
Creating and managing parts information for a business has far-reaching effects. Once you
include this information in the database, it is used time and time again by buyers, storeroom
employees, planners, managers, and other individuals throughout the organization.
One of the primary considerations associated with creating and managing parts information is
choosing and establishing your pricing method for parts. The system enables you to set up
and initialize stock using different price types and pricing methods. Average price reflects a
calculated average of part prices throughout the life cycle of the part. Last price is the last
price paid for a part in purchasing. Standard price is a periodically adjusted fixed price that is
usually taken from the supplier’s catalog. You can enter the initial prices; however, the system
readjusts these prices as the part begins to record transactions. Base price is the default price
used for purchasing if the part is not listed in the supplier’s catalog. It is also the price used for
work orders, stock issues, and direct purchases that involve the part. Base price is always
average price, last price, or standard price depending on the value set for the price type.
The system also enables you to set up and initialize stock using the last in first out (LIFO) and
first in first out (FIFO) inventory valuation methods. LIFO and FIFO are both time-based price
types. FIFO inventory pricing mandates that you consume the materials purchased first
before using the most recently purchased materials. LIFO pricing mandates that you consume
the most recently purchased materials before using the materials that were purchased first.
Class codes, categories, units of measure, suppliers, and other information must be defined
before adding parts information to the database.

Creating parts
Create parts to identify parts, assets, and tools that can be entered into inventory. When
creating parts, you can classify and categorize parts; identify serialized parts; and specify tax
codes, warranty information, tracking methods, buyers, and preferred suppliers to facilitate
the requisition and purchasing process. You can also designate parts as core tracked parts.
Core tracked parts are issued and returned like regular parts; however, a core tracked part
can also be repaired or reconditioned like a piece of equipment. When a part is flagged as
core tracked, you can set up repair details on the Parts form to indicate how the part is to be
repaired. Core tracked parts can be repaired internally on work orders or externally on
purchase orders.
The pricing level of a part is set at either the part level or the stock level, but the prices are
always set on the Part form. Price level determination is defined by the PRICELEV installation

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

309 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

parameter. If the PRICELEV installation parameter is set to P, then define prices on the part
level. If PRICELEV is set to S, then define prices on the store level.
If PRICELEV is set to P and you are not using multi-organization security (MOS), you can set
prices on the Record View page of the Parts form. If you have set the PRICELEV installation
parameter to P and you are using MOS, you must set prices on the Prices page of the Parts
form.
If the PRICELEV is set to S, you must set prices on the Stores page of the Parts form
regardless of whether you are using MOS.
If you are using FIFO or LIFO as your pricing method, PRICELEV must be set to S. For
LIFO/FIFO pricing, the system creates a receipt transaction that automatically updates and
inserts records into the R5BINSTOCK and R5FIFO tables when you receive a part to store to
ensure that the appropriate unit price is used for each subsequent issue transaction. Because
receipt transactions require a supplier, the system automatically inserts an asterisk (*) as the
supplier for the receipt.
See Understanding time-based inventory valuation (LIFO/FIFO).
The PRICETYP installation parameter is a fixed parameter that determines the default price
type used to process storeroom transactions for parts. The default value for PRICETYP is A
(Average price). The system administrator can set PRICETYP to S (Standard price), L (Last
price), LIFO (last in first out price), or FIFO (first in first out price) depending on the setting of
the PRICELEV installation parameter.
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the work order belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Part - Specify a unique code identifying the part, and then enter a description of the part
in the adjacent field.
If the AUTOPNUM installation parameter is set to YES, a part number is
automatically assigned after you save the record if no Part code is entered.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

310 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If you need to change the Part number, click Change Part Number.
Class - Specify the class of the part. The classes shown belong to the PART entity.
Category - Specify the category.
Tool - Specify a tool for the part to identify the part as a tool. Identifying a part with a
Tool enables you to issue and return tools and track tool usage for the part. Tools are
defined on the Tools form.
If Track by Asset is selected for the part, then the tool is also equipment. If
Track by Asset is not selected, then the tool is only considered a part.
UOM - Specify the part’s unit of measure.
Commodity - Specify the commodity if the part is considered a commodity. Specifying a
commodity code for a part enables you to segregate parts into broad groups for
purchasing and inventory. These groups can include wiring, office supplies, and safety
equipment.
Secondary Commodity - Specify the secondary commodity if the part is considered a
commodity within more than one commodity group. Specifying a secondary commodity
code for a part enables you to further segregate parts into multiple groups for
purchasing and inventory. These groups can include wiring, office supplies, and safety
equipment.
Documoto Book ID - Specify a specific Documoto Book with which to associate the
part.
Documoto Part ID - Specify a unique Documoto part number.
Track by Asset - Select to track parts by asset number or serial number. Tracking parts
by asset indicates that parts are pieces of equipment.
If you select Track by Asset, you must first receive the part and then enter a
unique serial number for each part upon receiving the part.
Track by Lot - Select to track parts by lot number. If you select a Lot, then a lot number
will be required for all material transactions involving the part.
Track as Kit - Select to track the part as a kit part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

311 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Track as Kit must be selected to include the part on a kit template.
Calibration Standard - Select to indicate the part is used as a standard for calibration.
Available for CUs - Select this check box to indicate that this part is available for
compatible units.
Track Cores - Select this check box if the part is a core tracked part. Core tracked parts
can be repaired internally on work orders or externally on purchase orders.
If Track Cores is selected, Track as Kit and Fugitive Gas cannot also be
selected.
Out of Service - Select if you do not want the part to appear in the parts lookup
elsewhere in the system.
Tax Code - Specify the tax to apply to the part. The values in this lookup come from a
previously defined tax structure.
Insp. Method - Specify the inspection method for the part.
Insp. Required - Select to indicate that an inspection is required for the part when it is
received on the PO Receipts form.
System Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the system level for the part.
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the assembly level for the part.
You cannot enter an Assembly Level unless you entered a System Level.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the component level for the par
You cannot enter a Component Level unless you entered an Assembly
Level.
Tracking Method - Select one of the tracking options:

Option

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

312 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Stock

Use stocked, quantity tracked, and amount tracked
for normal, stocked parts.

Expense

Use stocked, quantity tracked, and amount not
tracked for devalued spare parts. These parts are
issued at no cost.

Non-stock

Use non-stock, not tracked, expedited ordering for
expediting the parts procurement process.

Warranty Days - Specify the number of days the part is under warranty.
Save History - Select to capture historical inventory valuation data for the part in the
parts daily snapshot (PDS).
Prevent Reorders - Select to prevent this part from being reordered.
Fugitive Gas - Select to track gas emissions for the part.
Part Hierarchy - Specify the part code hierarchy level to attach to the part.
Profile Name - Specify the profile to attach to the part.
Department - Specify the department to attach to the part.
Equipment Class - Specify the equipment class to attach to the part.
Manufacturer - Specify the manufacturer of the part.
Model - Specify the model of the part.
Revision - Specify the revision number for the part.
Variable 1, Variable 2, Variable 3, Variable 4, Variable 5, and Variable 6 - Specify any
additional information about the part as necessary.
Buyer - Specify the part’s buyer. Buyer assigns a particular person to buying functions
for the part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

313 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Preferred Supplier - Specify the part’s primary supplier if requisitions for this part are
automatically generated. Supplier Price, Supplier UOM, and Qty. per UOP are
automatically populated if they have been added to the supplier’s catalog. If you enter a
Preferred Supplier with no catalog records, a record of the part is automatically created
in the supplier’s catalog. You can update part details for the supplier on the Suppliers
page.
If the MULTIORG installation parameter is set to YES, part pricing is
organization specific, and Price Type, Average Price, Last Price, Standard Price, and
Core Value are read-only.
If the PRICELEV installation parameter is set to S, part prices are recorded at the stock
level on the Stores page of the Parts form, and Price Type, Core Value, Average
Price, Standard Price, and Last Price are read-only. Part pricing at the stock level
enables you to maintain different prices for the same part in different stores.
If the PRICELEV installation parameter is set to P, part prices are recorded at the part
level. Complete steps 32-36.
Price Type - Select the price type for the part. Price Type is automatically populated
depending on the setting of the PRICETYP installation parameter.
If PRICETYP is set to LIFO or FIFO, last in first out or first in first out as a price
type are not displayed because LIFO/FIFO is not available for part pricing when prices
are set at the part level. You must select Average price, Last price, or Standard price as
the price type for the part.
Core Value - Specify the value of the part when it needs repair.
Average Price - Specify the average price paid for the part if prices are based on the
average price paid.
Standard Price - Specify the standard price for the part if prices are based on standard
price.
Last Price - Specify the last price paid for the part if prices are based on last price paid.
Track by Condition - Select this check box if the part should be tracked by condition. If
Track by Condition is not selected when the part is created, you cannot select the
check box after the part has been created.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

314 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

When creating parts, you cannot select Track as Kit or Fugitive Gas if Track
by Condition is selected. However, it is possible to build a kit then add the parts that
you have designated as track by condition to the kit template.
Part Condition Template - Specify the part condition template for the part.
4. Click Save Record. If a review has been performed on the Safety tab, Safety Date
Review Required and Safety Reviewed By are automatically populated.

Defining multiple prices of parts (MOS)
With multi-organization security (MOS), centrally maintain prices of parts used across
organizations. Often companies have multiple organizations with different currencies for each
organization.
When you are using MOS, you can enter multiple prices for a part that belongs to a common
organization. However, you can only enter one price for a part that belongs to a specific
organization.
If PRICELEV is set to P and MULTIORG is set to NO, then set prices on the Record View
page of the Parts form. If PRICELEV is set to S, set prices on the Stores page of the Parts
form regardless of the setting of the MULTIORG parameter. The PRICELEV installation
parameter is fixed.
To define multiple prices of parts (MOS):
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to define prices, and then click the Prices tab.
3. Click Add Price.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the part price belongs.
The system only displays organizations to which you have access. If the part
belongs to a common organization, the system displays all valid specific organizations
for the logged in user. If the part belongs to a specific organization, the system displays
only that organization.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

315 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Price Type - Select the price type for the part.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. The
system automatically populates Part and Part Org. If the part is a condition tracked
child part, the system automatically populates Condition, Part, and Part Org.
Core Value - Specify the value of the part when it needs repair.
Average Price - Specify the average price of the part if prices are based on average
price.
Standard Price - Specify the standard price of the part if prices are based on standard
price.
Last Price - Specify the last price paid for the part if prices are based on last price paid.
The system automatically populates the currency in the field adjacent to Average Price,
Last Price, and Standard Price with the currency of the part’s organization.
CU Standard Price - Specify the standard price to be used when performing estimation
for compatible units.
5. Click Submit.
To delete a price, select the price to delete, and then click Delete Price.
To modify the part number, click Change Part Number on the Record View page.

Defining sales prices for parts
Sales prices can be defined for specific parts to create invoice lines using a fixed sales price
rather than use the actual work order costs tracked by the system, like part issues, time
sheets, tool costs, etc.
To define sales prices for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to define sales prices, and then click the Sales Prices tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

316 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization - Specify the organization of the part.
Store - Specify the store to which the part belongs.
Sales Price - Specify the sales price for the selected part.
Date Effective - Specify the date this sales price will become effective for the part.
5. Optionally, specify the Condition of the part if it is a condition tracked part.
6. Click Submit.

Associating manufacturers with parts
Associate manufacturers with parts. You can have multiple manufacturers for a part within an
organization. You must define manufacturers on the Manufacturers form before associating
them with parts.
To associate manufacturers with parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to associate manufacturer information, and then click the
Manufacturers tab.
3. Click Add Manufacturer.
4. Specify this information:
Manufacturer - Specify the manufacturer for the part. The system automatically
populates Manufacturer Org.
Manufacturer Part Number - Specify the manufacturer’s part number for the part
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. The
system automatically populates Part and Part Org. If the part is a condition tracked
child part, the system automatically populates Condition, Part, and Part Org.
Drawing Number - Specify the drawing number if a drawing of the part is available.
Documoto Book ID - Specify a specific Documoto Book with which to associate the
manufacturer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

317 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Documoto Part ID - Specify a unique Documoto part number.
Out of Service - Select if you do not want the system to display the manufacturer part
number in the manufacturer part number lookups.
Primary - Select to indicate that the manufacturer is the primary manufacturer of the
part.
5. Click Submit.
To delete a manufacturer, select the manufacturer to delete, and then click
Delete Manufacturer. The system does not delete the record if the manufacturer and
the manufacturer part number are selected on the Stores page of the Parts form as the
Primary Manufacturer or Primary Manufacturer Part Number.

Associating nonconformity types with parts
Associate nonconformity types that are applicable for a part. For example, you can specify
nonconformites such as leaking, corroded, or broken for a pipe and omit irrelevant
nonconformities such as rotting wood.
To associate a nonconformity type with a part:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select a part with which to associate nonconformity types, and then click
Nonconformity Types.
3. Select a Nonconformity Type.
4. Click Submit.

Associating suppliers with parts
Associate suppliers with parts. You can have multiple suppliers for a part within an
organization. Additionally, suppliers may also have different methods for distributing parts,
such as their own unique units of measure. If a supplier’s unit of measure for selling a part is
different than the unit of measure of the part in inventory, you must establish the conversion
factor for the part to create the appropriate unit of measure for an issue. You can also identify
the supplier’s catalog number for the part, supplier’s part description, as well as other

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

318 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

information pertaining to supplier’s price, currency, and minimum order quantity.
The reference between suppliers and parts is created automatically when generating
purchase orders. The system verifies the supplier and notifies you if a supplier is not recorded
for a specific part. You may still proceed with a transaction after such a warning. If you do
proceed, the system automatically creates a new reference for the part with the supplier.
You must define suppliers on the Suppliers form before associating them with parts. To
associate suppliers with parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to define supplier information, and then click the Suppliers tab.
3. Click Add Supplier.
4. Specify this information:
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the part. The system automatically populates
Supplier Org. and Tax Code.
Supplier Part Desc. - Specify the supplier’s description of the part.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. The
system automatically populates Part and Part Org. of the part associated to the
selected Condition. If the part is a condition tracked child part, the system automatically
populates Condition, Part, and Part Org.
Catalog Reference - Specify the supplier’s part number. It may be identical to the
existing part number.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code with which to associate the cost of the part.
Gross Price - Specify the supplier’s price for the part without discounts or additional
fees.
Repair Price - Specify the supplier’s repair price for the part if the part is core tracked.
Repair Price is only enabled if the Part for which you are entering a supplier
record is core tracked.
If you entered an Internal Repair Price for a part on the Repair Details page of the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

319 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parts form, the system retrieves the Repair Price from the repair details for the part. If
you did not specify an Internal Repair Price, the system retrieves the Base Price of the
part for the Repair Price.
Preferred - Select to indicate that the supplier is the preferred supplier of the part.
Minimum Order Qty. - Specify the supplier’s minimum order quantity for the part.
UOP - Select the supplier’s unit of purchase for the part.
Qty. per UOP - Specify the conversion factor if the purchase unit of measure is different
from the inventory unit of measure.
Lead Time (Days) - Specify the average number of days that the supplier needs to
provide the ordered goods.
Repair Part Number - Specify the supplier’s repair part number for the part if the part is
core tracked.
Repair Part Number is only enabled if the Part for which you are entering a
supplier record is core tracked.
Documoto Book ID - Specify a specific Documoto Book with which to associate the
supplier.
Documoto Part ID - Specify a unique Documoto part number.
Expiration Date - Specify the expiration date for the part and supplier. This is just a
"catalog" date, and the date entered indicates the date on which the supplier’s catalog
information for the part should be replaced with a new catalog entry (new price, number,
etc.).
Tax Code - Specify the tax code for the supplier.
5. Click Submit. The system automatically populates Net Price.

• The system calculates the Net Price by adjusting the Gross Price for any
discounts or additional fees for the part.
• The system inserts the current date in Date Last Updated and calculates Local

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

320 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Price based on the currency of your organization with the following equation:
(Gross Price / Exchange Rate) / Qty. per UOP = Local Price
• To delete a supplier, select the supplier to delete, and then click Delete Supplier.
To add iProcure item association, click Add iProcure Item Association.
• To update iProcure items in the parts catalog, click Update iProcure Items.
• To update selected iProcure items in the parts catalog, click Update Selected
iProcure Items.
• To view iProcure sync errors, click View iProcure Sync Errors. View the errors,
and then click Close.

Associating alternate supplier catalog references for parts
Alternate supplier catalog references allow customers to keep a record of past catalog
reference numbers for a specific part.
To associate alternate supplier catalog references for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to create an alternate catalog reference of parts, and then click
the Suppliers tab.
3. Click Alternate Catalog of References.
4. Click Add Catalog Reference.
5. Specify this information:
Catalog Reference - Specify the supplier catalog reference to which to associate to the
supplier.
Notes - Specify notes for the catalog reference as necessary.
6. Click Submit.
To delete an alternate catalog reference, select the alternate catalog reference
to delete, and then click Delete Catalog Reference.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

321 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Adding safety data to parts
Add safety data to parts to inform your employees of any hazardous situation that can cause
bodily harm and of the precautions to take to protect themselves from these hazards. For
example, you can add a precaution to wear a safety harness when you identify a working at
heights hazard. After adding the safety data, review and verify the record by clicking the
Reviewed By icon. The review fields will be automatically populated after you review the
record.
To add safety data to parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to add safety data, and then click the Safety tab.
3. Specify this information:
Hazard - Specify the hazard to add to the part. The system automatically populates
Hazard Org., Hazard Type, and the hazard description.
Precaution - Specify the safety measure to protect your employees from the hazard.
The system automatically populates Precaution Org. and the precaution description.
Timing - Select the timing which is used to identify when the precaution should be
taken. For example, if your employee is working with fire, you can enter the timing of
pre-work to alert the employee that they should wear fire-resistant clothing before
beginning the task.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number which is used to identify the order in which
your employee should be made aware of the precaution. All precautions are important
regardless of the sequence number entered.
Health Hazard - Specify the health hazard for the part.
Flammability - Specify the flammability safety measure for the part.
Instability - Specify the instability safety measure for the part.
Special Hazards - Specify the special hazards for the part.
4. Click Submit. The system automatically populates Created By, Date Created,
Updated By, Date Updated, Reviewed By, Reviewed by Name, Date Reviewed, and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

322 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Review Type.

Creating repair details for core tracked parts
Create repair details for core tracked parts to enter detailed information about repairing or
reconditioning a part. The repair details for a core tracked part specify whether a part is to be
repaired internally or externally, and they include additional information used to generate
repair work orders or external repair requisition lines.

Understanding the auto-assignment processes for core tracked parts
The assignment process for a core tracked part denotes a bin location from which the system
is to take a part for repair, not a location in which to place a part for repair. The system can
either automatically assign repair details or you can manually assign repair details. The
manner in which the system auto-assigns core tracked parts will vary depends on the AutoAssign setting and quantities available for repair in bin locations.
If you specify a Store and set up a Default Core Bin, the system assigns the Qty. to Repair
from the Default Core Bin (from which the Bin, Lot, and Asset are specified for the repair
parts), and updates the Qty. Assigned. The system updates the Repair Details page of the
Parts form and moves the Core Qty. to the Qty. at Shop. If the system cannot find enough
parts for repair in the Default Core Bin or if no parts are located in the Default Core Bin or if
you do not select a Default Core Bin on the Repair Details page of the Parts form, the
system assigns details from other bin locations.

Creating repair details for core tracked parts to be repaired internally
Create repair details for core tracked parts to be repaired internally on Repairable Spare Type
work orders. If you select to generate work orders for repairable cores on the
Generate/Release WOs form, the system checks to see if there is a Core Qty. specified for
any parts in inventory for which you have entered repair details. If so, the system generates a
work order for the repairable core part based on the specified repair details for the part.
The stock record for the part is updated in the selected store with the repair details.
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to create repair details, and then click the Repair Details tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

323 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Select the store for which to create repair details for this core tracked part.
4. Specify this information:
Internal Repair - Select to repair the part internally.
If you select External Repair after saving the repair details as an Internal
Repair, the system displays a confirmation message asking whether you wish to
continue. If you select to continue, the system clears WO Equipment, Department, and
Standard WO. The system enables Supplier, Lead Time (Days), and Min. Repair
Qty.
WO Equipment - Specify the work order equipment for the core tracked part.
Department - Specify the department for the repair work order.
If you enter a value for WO Equipment, the system automatically populates
Department. Modify Department as necessary.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order for repairing the part.
Internal Repair Price - Specify the cost of repairing the part internally. The system
automatically populates Core Value with the value entered on the Stores tab.
Default Core Bin - Specify the default core bin to which to return the broken core
tracked part.
If you specify a Default Core Bin, the system automatically returns the broken core
tracked part to the specified bin location when you return it for repair from any form on
which you can return a part for repair.
We strongly recommend using the Default Core Bin feature to reduce the
number of manual steps required to manage your core tracked data. Specifying a
Default Core Bin in the repair details eliminates the need to manually enter a bin
location for returning the broken part when you actually return the part for repair.
Use Stock Method - Select to generate the quantity to repair based on the default stock
method specified for the part in the store.
If you select Use Stock Method, the system calculates the Qty. to Repair based on the
stock replenishment method specified for the part in the holding store. For example, you
selected Min/Max as the stock method for the part and you specified 5 as the Minimum

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

324 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Qty. and 10 as the Maximum Qty. for the part. The current Quantity of the part on
hand is 4 and the Core Qty. is 9. When you generate an internal repair work order for
the part, the system calculates the Core Qty. as 6 parts rather than 9 to update the Qty.
on Hand of the part in stock to the specified maximum of 10.
The Core Qty. represents the total number of core parts that are currently in a store.
The system calculates the Qty. to Repair, which is the total number of parts that must
be repaired and can be less than the Core Qty. depending on the current stock/repair
levels for the part.
Auto-Assign - Select to indicate that the system automatically assign parts for repair
from the specified Default Core Bin when generating a repairable core work order or
requisition.
If you select Auto-Assign, the system attempts to assign the number of parts in Qty. to
Repair from the specified Default Core Bin when generating repair work orders or
requisitions. If there are parts to be repaired in the Default Core Bin, the system
automatically assigns the parts from the bin location to the work order or requisition first.
When the system assigns all of the parts for repair located in the Default Core Bin or if
no parts are located in that bin, the system then checks other bin locations for the parts
to assign to the work order or requisition.
The assignment process for a core tracked part denotes a bin location from
which a part is to be taken for repair, not a location in which to place a part for repair.
5. Click Submit.
If you are using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing method and the RPPRCCAL
installation parameter is set to NO, the system protects the internal repair price and
records the base price of the part in the R5FIFO table.

Creating repair details for core tracked parts to be repaired externally
Create repair details for core tracked parts to be repaired externally. External repairs are
initiated using external repair requisitions submitted to a supplier who will repair the part. If
you select to generate external repair requisitions on the Generate Requisitions form, the
system checks to see if there is a Core Qty. specified for any parts in inventory for which you
have entered repair details. If so, the system generates a requisition for the core tracked part
based on the specified repair details for the part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

325 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The stock record for the part is updated in the selected store with the repair details.
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to create repair details, and then click the Repair Details tab.
3. Select the store for which to create repair details for this core tracked part.
4. Specify this information:
External Repair - Select to send the part to an external supplier for repair.
If you select Internal Repair after saving the repair details as an External
Repair, the system displays a confirmation message asking whether you wish to
continue. If you select to continue, the system clears Preferred Supplier, Lead Time
(Days), and Min. Repair Qty. The system enables WO Equipment, Department, and
Standard WO.
The system automatically populates Core Value with the value entered on the Stores
tab.
Default Core Bin - Specify the default core bin to which to return the broken core
tracked part.
If you specify a Default Core Bin, the system automatically returns the broken core
tracked part to the specified bin location when you return a broken core tracked part
from any form from which you can return a part for repair.
We strongly recommend using the Default Core Bin feature to reduce the
number of manual steps required to manage your core tracked data. Specifying a
Default Core Bin in the repair details eliminates the need to manually enter a bin
location for returning the broken core tracked part when you actually issue/return the
part for repair.
Preferred Supplier - Enter the preferred supplier for which to generate the requisition
for repair.
Lead Time (Days) - Specify the lead time for the core tracked part in days. The
specified lead time is added to the date requested (system date) to determine the
amount of additional lead time necessary for processing the repair.
Min. Repair Qty. - Specify the minimum quantity for repair that will trigger the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

326 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

generation of a requisition for the core tracked part.
Auto-Assign - Select to indicate that the system automatically assign parts for repair
from the specified Default Core Bin when generating a repairable cores work order or
requisition.
If you select Auto-Assign, the system attempts to assign the number of parts in Qty. to
Repair from the specified Default Core Bin when generating repair work orders or
requisitions. If there are parts to be repaired in the Default Core Bin, the system
automatically assigns the parts from the bin location to the work order or requisition first.
When the system assigns all of the parts for repair located in the Default Core Bin or if
no parts are located in that bin, the system then checks other bin locations for the parts
to assign to the work order or requisition.
The assignment process for a core tracked part denotes a bin location from
which a part is to be taken for repair, not a location in which to place a part for repair.
5. Click Submit.
If you are using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing method and the RPPRCCAL
installation parameter is set to NO, the system protects the internal repair price and
records the base price of the part in the R5FIFO table.

Defining substitute parts
Define parts that can be substituted for other parts. Parts do not have to be substituted in a
one-to-one relationship. You cannot add a substitute part to a condition tracked parent part.
However, you can associate substitute parts to condition tracked child parts.
To define substitute parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to define a substitute, and then click the Substitutes tab.
3. Click Add Substitute.
4. Specify this information:
Substitute Part - Specify the part to serve as a substitute. The system automatically
populates the part description and Substitute Part Org.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

327 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Fully Compatible - Select to indicate the original and substitute parts that can serve as
substitute parts for each other. For example, if you define Part A as a substitute for Part
B and select Fully Compatible, the system automatically displays Part B as a substitute
for Part A as well.

• To remove a substitute, select the substitute to remove, and then click Remove
Substitute.
• If you remove a substitute that was specified as Fully Compatible, the system
removes the association for both parts. For example, Part A is not a substitute for
Part B and Part B is not a substitute for Part A.

Changing part numbers
Modify part numbers/codes for temporary part numbers or existing parts.
During the requisition and purchase order process, the system assigns a temporary part
number to a part to prevent the part from appearing in the parts catalog several times with
different part numbers.
System-generated part numbers begin with the character "N." Allocate a new part number to
one of the system-generated temporary part numbers or change the temporary number to an
existing part number. The system retains the part information from the purchase order and
creates a new part record.
Additionally, many companies assign part codes to parts in their part catalog based on a
supplier’s catalog number for the part. Frequently, a supplier’s catalog is updated or changes
over time, so an existing part in your part catalog may lose its association with the supplier
catalog number. Therefore, you may need to update an existing part code to retain the
purchasing history and historical information for the part, rather than creating a new part to
associate with the updated supplier catalog numbers.
When you modify condition tracked parent part numbers, the system automatically changes
the part numbers for the condition tracked child parts. The last two characters (Suffix

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

328 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Separator and Suffix Code) of the child part number must remain unchanged.
If installation parameter AUTOPNUM is set to Yes, you may change a temporary or
existing part number; however, the system automatically changes the part number to the next
available part number within the system.
To change part numbers:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to modify the part number, and then right-click on the form in
the Record View.
3. Select Change Part Number.
4. Specify this information:
Class - Specify the part class. The system automatically populates Class Org.
New Part - Specify the new part number. The system automatically populates New Part
Org. and New Part Description based on the current organization and description of
the part.
You may either enter an existing part number or enter a part number that does
not exist currently in the system by typing the number in New Part.
The new part number cannot begin with the character "N" followed by a number.
Use Auto-number - Select to have the system automatically assign the next available
part number as the new part number.
If you select Use Auto-number, the system protects New Part. You cannot
enter a new part number.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing part number history
View all modifications of part numbers.
To view part number history:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

329 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Materials > Overview > Part Number History.
2. Specify this information:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy to view records. The
system applies the Dataspy to the list view, and displays the records.
3. View the part number history.

Viewing the monthly part usage chart
The monthly part usage chart shows the part usage for the current month and the previous
five months.
To view the monthly part usage chart:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view the monthly usage, and then click the Monthly Part
Usage Chart tab.
3. Specify the Store.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing archived transactions for parts
View archived transactions for parts.
To view archived transactions:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view archived transactions, and then click the Archived
Transactions tab.
3. View the archived transactions.

Defining and managing manufacturer information
Manufacturer information is more than a listing of manufacturers of parts. You can associate
manufacturers with parts in a concise and organized manner and attach other relevant

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

330 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

information relating to manufacturers and parts, such as drawing numbers, manufacturer part
numbers, and local part numbers. Complete supplier information on the Supplier form prior to
defining manufacturers and parts information.

Defining manufacturer information
To define manufacturer information:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Manufacturers.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the manufacturer belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Manufacturer - Specify a unique code identifying the manufacturer, and then enter a
description of the manufacturer in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the manufacturer. The classes shown belong to the MANU
entity. The system automatically populates Class Org.
Supplier - Specify the manufacturer’s supplier. The system automatically populates
Supplier Org.
Out of Service - Select if the manufacturer is out of service.
4. Click Save Record.

Associating parts with a manufacturer
Associate parts with a manufacturer record. If you have multiple parts for one manufacturer,
the system allows you to associate each of them with that manufacturer. For each part that
you associate with a manufacturer, enter your part code and the manufacturer’s part code.
The system will automatically cross-reference the manufacturer’s part codes with your part
codes based on the information you provide.
To associate parts with a manufacturer:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Manufacturers.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

331 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the manufacturer for which to associate parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify your part code. The system automatically populates the part description
and Part Org.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Manufacturer Part Number - Specify the manufacturer part code
Out of Service - Select if you do not want the system to display the manufacturer part
number in the manufacturer part number lookups.
Drawing Number - Specify the drawing code if a drawing of the part is available.
Documoto Book ID - Specify a specific Documoto Book with which to associate the
manufacturer.
Documoto Part ID - Specify a unique Documoto part number.
5. Click Submit. Add additional parts as necessary.

• To delete a part from the Parts list, select the part to delete from the list, and then
click Delete Part.
• The system does not delete the record if the manufacturer and the manufacturer
part number are selected on the Stores page of the Parts form as the Primary
Manufacturer or Primary Manufacturer Part Number.

Defining and managing supplier information
Large maintenance organizations deal with many suppliers. There are suppliers for parts,
equipment, services, rentals, office supplies, and more. The Suppliers form is the primary
form for setting up a supplier network. Within this form, establish a list of suppliers, create a
catalog of parts provided by specific suppliers, and list contacts for suppliers. You can also

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

332 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

associate addresses for suppliers.
You can also create a supplier hierarchy to establish parent/child relationships between
suppliers. When creating a supplier hierarchy, you cannot designate a supplier as a parent
supplier if the supplier is already designated as a child in a supplier hierarchy. Additionally, a
supplier cannot have multiple parent suppliers, nor can a supplier be parent supplier to itself
within a supplier hierarchy. For example, you create supplier records for the following three
suppliers: AMG INC, HARTFORD BOILERS, and SOUTHEASTERN. To create a supplier
hierarchy, you select AMG INC as the parent supplier for both HARTFORD BOILERS and
SOUTHEASTERN. Because HARTFORD BOILERS and SOUTHEASTERN are designated
as children of AMG INC, neither can be selected as a parent supplier in any other supplier
hierarchy, nor can they be designated as a child to any other supplier in another supplier
hierarchy.
After defining supplier information, you can update information for both suppliers and their
catalogs as necessary; however, you cannot delete a supplier record or a record from a
supplier’s catalog if they have been associated with another record within the system.

Defining suppliers
Define suppliers to create records for the suppliers in your supplier network.
Purchase Site and Service Provider indicate whether you can purchase materials and/or
services from the supplier. If you clear Purchase Site, you cannot select the supplier for
purchase orders for materials. Likewise, if you clear Service Provider, you cannot select the
supplier for purchases for services or labor.
Additionally, you can specify minimum and maximum order values for the supplier to establish
limits for purchasing from this supplier. You are prevented from creating purchase orders for
the supplier if you exceed the specified maximum or fail to meet a minimum order value for
purchasing materials or services.
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the supplier belongs if you use multiorganization security.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

333 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Supplier - Specify a unique code identifying the supplier , and then enter the supplier’s
name in the adjacent field.
Language - Select the supplier’s language.
Currency - Specify the supplier’s currency.
Class - Specify the class of the supplier. The classes shown belong to the COMP entity.
Out of Service - Select to indicate that you no longer wish to use this supplier. If you
select Out of Service, the system retains the record; however, it will no longer display
the supplier in the lookups from which you select suppliers on any other forms within the
system.
Status - Specify a status to categorize the supplier by status. Define the status field for
any purpose (for example, enter AC if the supplier is being actively used). The status is
for your informational use only.
iProcure Vendor - Specify the vendor to associate with the supplier for use with
iProcure transactions.
Account Number - Specify the supplier’s iProcure account number.
Purchase Site - Select to indicate that you purchase goods from this supplier. Selecting
Purchase Site inserts the supplier into the lookup from which you select suppliers on
any other forms within the system. Unselect to indicate that the supplier is only for
purchasing labor or services.
Parent Supplier - Specify the parent company. Using the "Parent" attribute, you can
indicate whether a supplier is part of a larger organization. Parent/child supplier
relationships can be established for information only. Note: You cannot designate a
supplier as a parent supplier if the supplier is already designated as a child in a supplier
hierarchy. Additionally, a supplier cannot have multiple parent suppliers, nor can a
supplier be a parent supplier to itself within a supplier hierarchy.
Lead Time (Days) - Specify the average number of days the supplier needs to provide
the ordered goods or services.
Real-time Info - Select to indicate that the supplier provides real-time information for
the items they supply via iProcure.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

334 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Service Provider - Select to indicate that the supplier provides services. Clear the
check box to indicate that the supplier is only for purchasing materials. If unselected, the
supplier cannot be selected for purchasing or requisitioning labor.
Min. Order Value - Specify the minimum order amount.
FOB Point - Specify the supplier’s free on board shipping point.
Ship Via - Specify the supplier’s method of shipping.
Payment Method - Specify the supplier’s preferred method of payment.
Max. Order Value - Specify the maximum order amount.
Payment Terms - Specify the supplier’s payment terms.
Freight Terms - Specify the supplier’s freight terms.
Buyer - Specify the primary buyer for this supplier.
Contact Name - Specify the primary supplier contact.
Telephone, Fax Number - Specify the supplier’s phone and fax numbers.
E-mail Address - Specify the supplier contact’s e-mail address.
Our Contact - Specify the supplier’s primary contact for your organization, which is
generally the corporate buyer.
EDI Number - Specify the supplier’s electronic data interchange (EDI) number for
processing electronic transaction information.
Customer - Select to indicate the supplier is a customer. Selecting Customer inserts
the supplier into the lookup from which you select customers on any other forms within
the system. If Customer is unselected, the supplier cannot be selected for customer
contracts or rentals.
Customer Account Code - Specify the supplier's customer account code.
Customer Cost Center - Specify the supplier's customer cost center.
Tax Code - Specify the supplier's tax code.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

335 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Save Record.

Defining contacts for suppliers
Define contacts to have a reference library of contacts for each supplier. Maintain a list of
supplier contacts for various purposes such as customer service, shipping, and billing, in
addition to the primary contact specified on the Record View page of the Suppliers form.
To define contacts for suppliers:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.
2. Select the supplier for which to define contacts, and then click the Contacts tab.
3. Click Add Contact.
4. Specify the Sequence number to associate with the contact.
5. Specify the contact's Name, Address 1, Address 2, City, State, Zip Code, Primary
Email, Secondary Email, Primary Phone, Secondary Phone, Third Phone, Primary
Fax, Secondary Fax, Email Fax, and Preferred Contact Method.
6. Select the Out of Service check box if the contact is out of service.
7. Click Submit.

Copying suppliers
Copy a supplier including all details to a new supplier.
1. Create a supplier.
2. Right-click anywhere on the Suppliers form, and then select Copy Supplier.
3. Specify this information:
New Supplier - Specify the name of the new supplier. New Supplier description is
automatically populated.
4. Select the record types to copy, and then click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

336 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating a supplier catalog
Create a supplier catalog to establish and maintain a list of the materials provided by a
supplier.
To create a supplier catalog:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.
2. Select the supplier for which to create a catalog of parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add to the requisition. The system automatically populates
Part Org., Exchange Rate, and Date Last Updated.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Supplier Part Desc. - Specify the supplier’s description of the part.
Catalog Reference - Specify the supplier’s part number. It may be identical to the
existing part number.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code with which to associate the cost of the part.
Gross Price - Specify the supplier’s price for the part without discounts or additional
fees. After adjusting gross price for discounts and additional fees, the system updates
Net Price and calculates Local Price based on the currency of the organization with the
following equation:
(Price / Exchange Rate) / Qty. per UOP = Local Price
Repair Price - Specify the supplier’s price for repairing the part.
Repair Price is only enabled if the Part is core tracked.
Tax Code - Specify the tax code for the part that identifies the tax structure to apply all
of the applicable taxes to purchases of this part

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

337 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Preferred Supplier - Select to indicate that this supplier is the preferred supplier of the
part.
Expiration Date - Specify the expiration date indicating the date on which the supplier’s
catalog information should be replaced with a new catalog entry such as new price, part
number, etc.
Comments - Specify comments for the supplier/part combination as necessary.
Minimum Order Qty. - Specify the minimum quantity of the part that you can order from
this supplier.
UOP - Specify the unit of measure of purchase for the part.
Qty. per UOP - Enter the conversion factor if the purchase unit of measure is different
from the inventory unit of measure.
Lead Time (Days) - Enter the average number of days that the supplier needs to
provide the ordered goods.
Repair Part Number - Enter the number/code for the supplier who will actually be
repairing the part.
Repair Part Number is only enabled if the Part is core tracked.
Documoto Book ID - Specify a specific Documoto Book with which to associate the
part.
Documoto Part ID - Specify a unique Documoto part number.
5. Click Submit.

• To delete a part, select the part to delete, and then click Delete Part.
• The system automatically populates the Date Last Updated with the system date
of the most recent changes to the part record.
• To add iProcure item association, click Add iProcure Item Association.
• To update iProcure items in the parts catalog, click Update iProcure Items.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

338 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To update selected iProcure items in the parts catalog, click Update Selected
iProcure Items.
• To view iProcure sync errors, click View iProcure Sync Errors.
• To create an alternate supplier catalog reference, click Alternate Catalog
Reference.

Associating alternate catalog references for suppliers
Alternate supplier catalog references allow customers to keep a record of past catalog
reference numbers for a specific part.
To associate alternate catalog references for suppliers:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.
2. Select the supplier for which to create an alternate catalog reference of parts, and then
click the Parts tab.
3. Click Alternate Catalog of References.
4. Click Add Catalog Reference.
5. Specify this information:
Catalog Reference - Specify the catalog reference number to which to associate to the
supplier.
Notes - Specify notes for the catalog reference as necessary.
6. Click Submit.
To delete an alternate catalog reference, select the alternate catalog reference
to delete, and then click Delete Catalog Reference.

Viewing purchase order history for suppliers
To view purchase order history for suppliers:
1. Open the Business Partners form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

339 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the supplier for which to view purchase order history, and then click the PO
History tab.
3. View the purchase order history for the supplier. The PO History page displays the
same information as the Purchase Orders form.

Defining rates for suppliers
Define and update rates for suppliers. Define multiple rates for each supplier as necessary.
When automatically populating Hourly Rate on any form, the system populates the
field based on the information entered on the Rates page of the Suppliers form. If you do not
define a rate for a supplier, the system populates Hourly Rate based on the information
entered on the Rates page of the Trades form if applicable.
To define rates for suppliers:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.
2. Select the supplier for which to define rates, and then click the Rates tab.
3. Click Add Rate.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the rate belongs if you use multiorganization security.
If the supplier is assigned to a specific organization, the system automatically
displays the organization. You cannot modify Organization.
Trade - Specify the trade.
Hourly Rate - Specify the hourly rate of the trade.
Tax Code - Specify the tax code to associate to the rate for the supplier.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the beginning and ending dates to which the rate
applies.
Dates for the same trade and rate combination cannot overlap. For example,
the MAINT trade cannot have a rate of 20 to start 01-01-2004 and to end on 01-01-2005

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

340 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and another rate of 25 to start on 06-01-2004.
5. Click Submit.
To delete a rate, select the rate to delete, and then click Delete Rate.

Associating commodities with suppliers
Define commodity codes before associating commodities with suppliers.
The system allows you to associate multiple commodities with each supplier.
To associate commodities with suppliers:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.
2. Select the supplier with which to associate a commodity, and then click the
Commodities tab.
3. Click Add Commodity.
4. Specify this information:
Commodity - Specify the commodity to associate with the supplier. The system
automatically displays the commodity description and Commodity Org.
5. Click Submit.
To remove a commodity, select the commodity to remove, and then click
Remove Commodity.

Recording fuel mixes for associated commodities
Record the fuel mix for each commodity associated with a supplier.
To record fuel mixes for associated commodities:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers
2. Select the supplier for which to record fuel mixes, and then click the Fuel Mix tab.
3. Click Add Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

341 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Commodity - Specify the commodity for which to record fuel mixes.
Fuel Type - Select the type of fuel used for the associated commodity.
Daily Capacity - Specify the amount for the daily capacity. The system automatically
populates the daily capacity UOM and % of Total Capacity.
Date Effective - Specify the date this record will become effective. The system
automatically populates Date Expired.
5. Click Submit.

Associating account numbers to suppliers
Associate an account number to a supplier for a specific store.
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.
2. Select the supplier for which to associate an account number, and then click the
Account Number tab.
3. Click Add Account Number.
4. Specify this information:
Account Number - Specify a unique code identifying the supplier account.
Store - Specify the store to associate to the supplier account.
Payment Method - Specify the supplier's method of payment for this account.
5. Click Submit.

Associating equipment with suppliers
Associate equipment that is serviced by a supplier.
To associate equipment with a supplier:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

342 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the supplier with which to associate equipment, and then click the Equipment
tab.
3. Click Add Equipment.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment to associate with the supplier.
5. Select the Apply Supplier to Children check box to apply the supplier to all of the
children of the selected equipment as well.
6. Select the Skip this Level check box to indicate that the supplier is not relevant for the
selected equipment but may be for its children.
7. Click Submit.

Adding services to suppliers
To add services to suppliers:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.
2. Select the supplier to which to add a service, and then click the Services tab.
3. Click Add Service.
4. Specify this information:
Task - Specify the work order task that corresponds with the supplier’s service. The
system automatically populates the task description, Task Org., and Exchange Rate.
Catalog Reference - Specify the supplier’s catalog reference number for the service.
Price - Specify the supplier’s cost and currency for the service.
Tax Code - Specify the tax code for the service and supplier.
Preferred Supplier - Select if the supplier is the preferred supplier for the service.
Expiration Date - Specify the expiration date for the service and supplier. This is just a
"catalog" date, and the date entered indicates the date on which the supplier’s catalog
information for the service should be replaced with a new catalog entry (new price,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

343 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

number, etc.).
Purchase UOM - Specify the supplier’s unit of measure for the service.
Qty. per UOP - Specify the quantity per unit of purchase for the service.
If you enter Purchase UOM, enter Qty. per UOP to indicate the unit of
purchase in relation to the unit of measure that the supplier has defined for the service.
For example, if you hire a supplier to landscape, the supplier defines his services in
hours, and it will take the supplier 5 hours to landscape, then enter the code for hours in
Purchase UOM. Then enter 5 in Qty. per UOP.
Lead Time (Days) - Specify the average number of days that the supplier needs to
provide the service.
5. Click Submit.
The system inserts the current date in Date Last Updated and calculates Local Price
based on the currency of your organization with the following equation:
(Price / Exchange Rate) / Qty. per UOP = Local Price
To remove a service, select the service to remove, and then click Remove
Service.

Associating service codes with suppliers
To associate service codes with suppliers:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.
2. Select the supplier with which to associate service codes, and then click the Service
Codes tab.
3. Select a Service Code to associate with the supplier.
4. Click Submit.

Creating service code exclusions for suppliers
Specify service codes that are not delivered by the supplier for specified equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

344 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To create service code exclusions for a supplier:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Suppliers.
2. Select the suppliers for which to specify service code exclusions, and then click the
Service Code Exclusions tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to exclude a service.
Service Code - Specify the service code for the excluded service.
5. Click Submit.

Managing stock information
Stock refers to the basic information on items contained within a store (or group of stores in
the same company). Think of stock as a subset of parts. Every item in stock must be a part,
but not every part must be in stock. Stock is a list of items held; a parts list is your list of items
available for purchase from outside sources or items that you generally do not stock.
You can associate stores with parts and enter automatic reorder information for parts.
Consider how the stock item is reordered. The inventory unit of measure may be 'each' but
the purchasing unit of measure may be based on item, case, or gross. If the maximum level is
20 and your minimum level is 10, but you reorder the item by the case (with 24 items per
case), you need to adjust levels.
Consider the vendor lead time. Some stock items may be reordered every 60 days and others
may be reordered every 30 days. You may want to order a higher quantity of items for those
60-day periods. Also, some items take longer to procure and you may have to increase
reorder amounts to have enough on hand.
Specify the stock replenishment method for the part. You can set the stock method to
Min/Max, Reorder Level, or On-Demand.
If you are using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing method for stock, the system records the unit price
of each receipt transaction for stock so that each subsequent inventory transaction is
recorded at the appropriate unit price.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

345 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

See Understanding time-based inventory valuation.

Associating stores with parts
Associating stores with parts enables you to specify detailed inventory information for specific
parts, such as minimum stock levels and reorder quantities that determine how your
company’s stock levels are maintained.
Additionally, you can also define part prices at the stock level enabling you to enter and
update pricing information for each store in which the part is held.
Additionally, if you select Last in first out price (LIFO) or First in first out price (FIFO) as the
Price Type for the part in the store, the system inserts a record for the part in the R5FIFO
table when the part is received to stock that includes the part, price, quantity, store, and
transaction date. The transaction date indicates the date the stock is inserted into inventory
upon which all future LIFO/FIFO transactions for the part are based. For FIFO pricing, the
system locates the record that was inserted into inventory first. For LIFO pricing, the system
locates the record that was most recently inserted into inventory.
Depending on your system configuration, set the stock replenishment method for the part in
stock and specify minimum and maximum quantities, a reorder level, and/or an order quantity
as necessary.
The INVMETH installation parameter determines the default stock method for new parts in
stock in all stores as Reorder Level (-). Modify the stock method for a part in stock in any
store as necessary. If you have not modified the INVMETH parameter or do not specify a
stock method for a stock record, the system automatically sets the stock method to Reorder
Level.
Additionally, the system does not implement any of the stock methods for a part until you
enter the information required to implement the stock method for the part. For example, if you
set the stock method of a part in stock to Min/Max, you must enter a value Minimum Qty. and
Maximum Qty. to implement the stock method for the part.
If the part has Track by Asset selected, the system excludes assets that are installed in a
parent asset or parent position and therefore are not part of the quantity on hand. The
Quantity Installed field indicates how many assets are installed in other parts.
1. Select Materials > Parts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

346 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the part for which to define store information, and then click the Stores tab.
3. Click Add Store.
4. Specify this information:
Store - Specify the store for the part. The system automatically populates the store
description, Store Org., Stock Date with the current system date, and Base Price with
the appropriate price of the part. The system also populates Stock Value with the
current value of the quantity on hand, excluding the quantity installed, for the part using
the base price of the part in stock. The system populates Credit Balance with the
amount of credit associated with the part for an invoice line.
Credit Balance is applied to the Average Price of the part based on the
INCREDIT installation parameter upon approval of a new invoice and/or a credit or debit
note applied to an invoice or an invoice line.
Core Value - Specify the core value of the part at the store level. The core value is the
value of the part while it is in stock awaiting repair (for both external and internal
repairs).
For example, you have a part CS-ST-SPROCKET-249x284 IN part that is a carbon steel
skip tooth sprocket .249" x .284" thickness valued at $200. The core value of CS-STSPROCKET-249x284 IN is $70. You issue one CS-ST-SPROCKET-249x284 IN valued
at $200 to a piece of equipment. You also return one CS-ST-SPROCKET-249x284 IN
taken off of the piece of equipment for repair. Because the CS-ST-SPROCKET-249x284
IN must be sent to the machine shop for repair, the system does not issue an inventory
credit of $200. Instead, the system issues a credit of the $70 core value to your
inventory.
Stock Class - Specify the stock class for the part.
Preferred Supplier - Specify the preferred supplier for the part.
Preferred Store - Specify the preferred store for the part.
You cannot enter a value for both Preferred Supplier and Preferred Store.
Preferred Supplier and Preferred Store are both used for automatically generating
requisitions from low stock to provide different information for the requisition. Entering a
Preferred Supplier for the part in store indicates that the requisition type for the part is
Goods Requested. Entering a Preferred Store indicates that the requisition type for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

347 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

part in store is a Store-to-Store transfer.
Lead Time (Days) - Specify the average number of days that the store needs to provide
the part. The Lead Time (Days) indicates a number of days that are needed internally
for inventory deliveries or transfers of the part from the store. Lead Time (Days) is only
used for store-to-store requisitions.
You can also enter Lead Time (Days) on the Record View page of the Stores
form. The setting of Lead Time (Days) on the Stores page of the Parts form overrides
the setting of Lead Time (Days) on the Record View page of the Stores form.
ABC Class - Select the class (A, B, or C) with which to associate the stock items. The
system uses this information to perform ABC analysis.
Stock Method - Select one of the following stock method types:

Option

Description

Min/Max

Select to replenish low stock based on a specified
minimum and maximum quantity of a part to keep in
stock. When the quantity of a part in stock reaches a
level that is less than the specified minimum level, the
system reorders the necessary quantity of the part to
replenish the quantity to the specified maximum level.
Reorder Level and Order Qty. are read-only when
Stock Method is Min/Max.

Reorder Level

Select to replenish low stock based on a specified
reorder level and order quantity. When the quantity of
a part in stock reaches the reorder level, the system
reorders the part in increments of the specified order
quantity until the quantity of the part in stock reaches
a level that is greater than or equal to the reorder
level.
Maximum Qty. is read-only when Stock Method is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

348 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Reorder Level.

On Demand

Select to replenish low stock only when there is a
demand for it on a work order or store-to-store
requisition.
Reorder Level and Maximum Qty. are read-only
when Stock Method is On Demand.

Reorder Level - Specify the quantity at which the system is to reorder the part. The
value entered for Reorder Level specifies the quantity of a part that, when reached,
triggers a purchase action for acquiring more of that part.
Prevent Issue from Default Return Bin - Select this check box to prevent the part from
being issued from the default return bin.
Order Qty. - Specify the standard quantity of this part ordered at one time.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. The
system automatically populates Part and Part Org. If the part is a condition tracked
child part, the system automatically populates Condition, Part, and Part Org.
If the asterisk (*) condition is entered, store records will be created for each
condition tracked child associated with the part. Also, the system will automatically
populate Part and Part Org. for each store record with the values of the condition
tracked child part and part organization. The condition for each store record will be the
same as the condition for each condition tracked child. If the condition entered is not an
asterisk (*), Part and Part Org. will be automatically populated with the part and part
org. of the child part condition associated with the selected condition.
Conditions to Include in Reorder - Specify the conditions to include when the part is
reordered if the part is tracked by condition. Only Qty. on Hand for part conditions listed
in the Conditions to Include in Reorder will be considered.
Record Stockouts - Select to enable the system to create a record of the part, store,
and date on which the inventory level for this part reached zero. You can view this
information on a separate form.
Default Bin - Specify the default bin for the part. The system automatically populates

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

349 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the Default Bin Qty. with the quantity of the parts located in the selected bin.
Default Return Bin - Specify the default return bin for the part. This is typically used as
a staging area for returned Kits and Parts.
Price Type - Specify the price type, such as Average, FIFO, LIFO, or Standard.
Average Price - Optionally, specify the average price for the part. Average price reflects
a calculated average of part prices throughout the life cycle of the part.
Standard Price - Optionally, specify the standard price for the part. Standard price is a
periodically adjusted fixed price that is usually taken from the supplier’s catalog.
CU Standard Price - Specify the standard rate to be used when performing estimation
for compatible units.
Last Price - Optionally, specify the last price for the part. Last price is the last price paid
for a part in purchasing.
5. Optionally specify these label information:
Label Printer - Specify the default printer for printing barcode labels.
Label Template (Issue) - Specify the default label template for printing barcode labels
for issues.
Label Template (Receipt) - Specify the default label template for printing barcode
labels for purchase order receipts.
Label Template (Non-PO Receipt) - Specify the default label template for printing
barcode labels for non-purchase order receipts.
Label Template (Store-to-Store Receipt) - Specify the default label template for
printing barcoding labels for store-to-store receipts.
Label Template (Core Return) - Specify the default label template for printing barcode
labels for core returns.
Label Template (Warranty Return) - Specify the default label template for printing
barcode labels for warranty returns.
Label Template (Held Items on PO Receipt) - Specify the default label template for

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

350 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

printing barcoding labels for held items on PO receipts.
Label Template (Held Items on Non-PO Receipt) - Specify the default label template
for printing barcoding labels for held items on Non-PO receipts.
Label Template (Held Items on Stock Transfer) - Specify the default label template for
printing barcoding labels for held items on stock transfers.
Label Printing Default - Select the default method for printing labels when the part is
received to the selected store.
6. Click Submit.

• You cannot delete a store associated with a part if a stock record exists for the part in
that store.
• Click Add/Edit Comments to enter comments.
• To add, edit, view, or associate a document to the STOC entity, click Add/Edit
Documents.

Entering stock information for parts
When you enter stock information for parts, you can select the Store, Bin, and Lot for the
part in store. The system automatically enters the price based on the calculated base price of
the part, and you can modify the price as necessary.
If you do not enter a Qty. on Hand for the part when entering a stock record, the system
creates a new stock record for the part but does not create a stock transaction.
If you are using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing method, the system creates a record for the part in
the R5FIFO table and creates a receipt transaction for the stock initialization of the part.
To enter stock information for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to define stock information, and then click the Stock tab.
3. Click Add Stock Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

351 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Store - Specify the store for the part. The system automatically populates the store
description and the Store Org.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. The
system automatically populates Part and Part Org. If the part is a condition tracked
child part, Condition will be automatically populated with the condition of the selected
part.
If the asterisk (*) condition is entered, store records will be created for each
condition tracked child associated with the part. Also, the system will automatically
populate Part and Part Org. for each store record with the values of the condition
tracked child part and part org. The condition for each store record will be the same as
the condition for each condition tracked child. If the condition entered is not an asterisk
(*), Part and Part Org. will be automatically populated with the part and part org. of the
child part condition associated with the selected condition.
Bin - Specify the bin number storing the part.
Lot - Specify the lot number or batch of the part.
The SHOWLOT installation parameter determines whether lots are used for
stock information for parts. The default setting for SHOWLOT is Y. If SHOWLOT is set
to N, the system disables Lot, and it is hidden.
Qty. on Hand - Specify the available quantity of the part.
Core Qty. - If the part is core tracked, specify the number of core parts that are currently
in this Bin location. These are parts that you plan to repair on internal repair work orders
or to send to a supplier on external repair requisitions. The value of Core Qty. is
available for work orders and requisitions. The system automatically populates UOM.
You can only specify a value for Core Qty. when inserting a stock record. You
cannot edit or modify Core Qty. after saving the record.
The system does not create a stock transaction for the part when you specify a value for
Core Qty., nor does it make any price updates until the part is repaired and received
back to Qty. on Hand.
If you attempt to delete the stock record for the part, the system verifies both the Qty.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

352 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

on Hand and the Core Qty. If both the Qty. on Hand and the Core Qty. are not equal to
0, the system will not allow you to delete the stock record for the part.
5. Click Submit.

• If you specify a value greater than zero for Qty. on Hand, the system also creates
a receipt transaction of type RECV for the part. However, if you specify zero as the
quantity or do not specify a value for Qty. on Hand, the system creates a stock
record for the part but does not create a receipt transaction for the part.
• The system does not create a receipt transaction for the part when you specify a
value for Core Qty., nor does it make any price updates.
• The system treats the stock information specified for this part as a stock receipt
and updates the Last Price of the part.
• To delete a stock, select the stock to delete, and then click Delete Stock Record.
You cannot delete a stock record for a part if the quantity on hand of the part is
greater than zero.
• The system displays an Asset ID if the part is tracked by asset.
• The system populates Price based on the setting of the PRICELEV installation
parameter. If PRICELEV is set to P, the system populates Price with the base
price of the part from the Prices tab of the Parts form. If PRICELEV is set to S,
the system populates Price with the base price of the part from the Stores tab of
the Parts form, and you can change the price as necessary.
• To record a stockout for a store, select the store, and then click Record
Stockouts.

Recording stockouts for parts
Record a stockout when the part's Qty. on Hand is not enough to fill the demanded Part Qty.
To record stockouts for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

353 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the part for which to record a stockout, and then click the Stock tab.
3. Select a store, and then click Record Stockout. The system automatically populates
Store, Part, and Part Org.
4. Specify this information:
Stockout Qty. - Specify the number of parts missing that are required to complete the
transaction.
Date/Time - Specify the date and time the stockout occurred, meaning the day there
was not enough of the part in inventory to issue to fill the demand.
5. Click Submit.

Calculating economic order quantity (EOQ)
Calculate the EOQ for a store to determine the most efficient quantity to order for inventory
items. EOQ represents the ideal balance between ordering costs and inventory holding costs
for items being demanded annually at a constant rate. EOQ helps manage inventory by
minimizing order costs and holding costs for each item.
To calculate EOQ:
1. Select Materials > Process > Calculate EOQ.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to calculate EOQ if you use multiorganization security.
Date From - Specify the date of the item’s first analysis.
Date To - Specify the date of the item’s last analysis.
Store - Specify the store for which to calculate EOQ.
Part - Specify the part for which to calculate EOQ.
Stock Class - Specify the class of the stock for which to calculate EOQ.
ABC Class - Select the class of the stock (A, B, or C) for which to calculate EOQ.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

354 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Choose one of these options:

Option

Description

% of Average Price

Select to calculate EOQ with a percentage of average
price. Skip step 11.
The system uses this equation to calculate
EOQ based upon % of Average Price.
Holding Cost % is required.

Fixed Value

Select to calculate EOQ with a fixed value. Skip step
10.
The system uses this equation to calculate
EOQ based upon Fixed Value.
Holding Cost is required.

4. Specify the following:
Holding Cost % - Specify the cost for the holding percentage.
Holding Cost - Specify the holding cost.
Fixed Order Cost - Specify the fixed order cost.
Print Calculated EOQ - Select to print the EOQ report.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

355 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Process.
6. Select each store for which to update the order quantity.
7. Click Update Order Qty. The system updates the order quantity on the Stores page of
the Parts form for each selected parts record with the value in New Order Qty.

Scrapping parts
Scrap parts that are beyond repair.
Parts must be repairable spares to scrap.
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part to scrap, and then click the Stock tab.
3. Select the specific stock to scrap, and then click Scrap Part. The system automatically
populates Part, Description, Available Qty., and Asset ID if the part is tracked by
asset.
4. Specify this information:
Scrap Qty. - Specify the quantity of parts to scrap.
5. Click Submit.

Transferring parts between bins
Transfer parts between bins within the same store. Transferring parts between bins does not
create a stock transaction, because inventory levels for the part remain the same.
To transfer parts between bins:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part to transfer between bins, and then click the Stock tab.
3. Select the store, bin, and lot from which to transfer the part, and then click Transfer
Part between Bins.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

356 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

New Bin - Specify the bin receiving the item.
Transfer Qty. - Specify the number of parts to transfer from the sending bin to the
receiving bin. If the part to issue is tracked by asset, the system automatically selects
Track By Asset, specifies 1 as the Transaction Quantity and Available Quantity, and
displays the asset number by which the part is tracked for Asset ID.
You cannot specify a Transaction Quantity greater than 1 when issuing parts
tracked by asset. If you want to issue multiple quantities of a part tracked by asset, you
must transfer the part with a Transaction Quantity of 1 until you have transferred the
total number of the part tracked by asset that you wish to transfer from the sending bin
to the receiving bin.
5. Click Submit.
The system transfers the specified quantity of the part from the sending bin to the
receiving bin, and updates the Qty. on Hand of the selected bins in the Stock list.

Transferring parts without requisitions
Transfer parts from store to store without requisitioning them. Parts transferred using the
Quick Store-to-Store Transfer form never achieve in-transit status. Since this tracking
feature is not used for this type of transfer, store-to-store transfers should be reserved for very
quick material movements. Quantities available both in the sending and receiving warehouses
are adjusted immediately after the system saves the transaction.
When you transfer parts from store-to-store, the system creates a stock record for the
transferred part in the receiving store for which the price type defaults to the price type of the
receiving store. By default, the price type for a store is defined by the PRICELEV installation
parameter; however, you can modify the price type for each store as necessary
Using the Quick Store-to-Store Transfer form, define a transfer header and then add as
many part records as there are parts to transfer. Before submitting your transaction, you can
edit part records by selecting the part in the Transaction Details list. The system displays the
part record in the detail section where you can edit information related to the transfer as
necessary.
If you are using multi-organization security, you can only transfer parts between
stores without requisitions using the Quick Store-to-Store Transfer form if the stores you are
transferring the parts between are in the same organization, if the parts belong to the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

357 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

common organization, and the organizations have the same currency.
To transfer parts without requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Quick Store-to-Store Transfer.
2. Specify this information:
Transfer Desc. - Specify a description of the transfer.
From Store - Specify the store from which to transfer parts.
If a Default Bin is defined for the From Store, the system populates From Bin
with the Default Bin, and the system populates the On Hand Qty. and Core Qty. based
on the From Bin. The system will also populate the Bin.
To Store - Specify the store to which to transfer parts.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to transfer. The system automatically populates From Bin, To
Bin, Lot, Price, and On Hand Qty. If the selected Part is core tracked, the system
enables Transfer Core Qty. and populates Core Qty. with the number of parts
designated as for repair in the From Bin.

• The value displayed for On Hand Qty. indicates the current quantity of the part
that is available for the specified To Bin and Lot, which is equal to the On Hand
Qty. minus any quantity of the part that is currently allocated to any work orders.
• If you delete the From Bin, the system clears Lot and then calculates the On
Hand Qty. and Core Qty. for the From Store, which is the sum of the quantities of
the part in all the bins in the From Store.
• The system calculates the Core Qty. as the difference between quantity for repair
in the From Bin and the number parts that are assigned on the Repair Parts
page of a Repairable Core work order and the number of parts that are currently
on External Repair requisitions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

358 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If
the selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically
populate Condition.
From Bin - Modify the bin from which to transfer the part if necessary. If you
modify From Bin, the system removes the part.
To Bin - Modify the bin to which to transfer the part if necessary. If you modify To
Bin, the system removes the part.
Lot - Modify the lot of the part to transfer if necessary. If you modify Lot, the
system removes the part.
Price - Modify the price of the part to transfer if necessary. If you modify Price, the
system removes the part.
When PRICELEV is set to S, the system automatically populates Price
with the base price of the part in the receiving store.
Asset ID - Specify the code identifying the asset associated with the part to
transfer. If the part is tracked by asset, the system enables Asset ID and you must
specify an asset ID number for the part before you can specify values for Transfer
On Hand Qty. or Transfer Core Qty.
Transfer On Hand Qty. - Specify the number of parts to transfer from the quantity
of the parts available in the From Store.
If the part is an asset part, you can only transfer one part at a time. The
system automatically displays a transfer quantity of "1" for asset parts. On Hand
Qty. shows how many parts are available in the store or store, bin, and lot.
Transfer Core Qty. - Specify the number of parts to transfer from the quantity of
the parts designated for repair in the From Store.

• You can only specify a value for Transfer On Hand Qty. or Transfer Core Qty.,
but not both. When you specify a value for either Transfer On Hand Qty. or
Transfer Core Qty., the system protects the other field.
• If you specify a Transfer Core Qty., the system clears the From Bin, To Bin,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

359 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Asset ID, Serial Number, Lot, and Expiration Date, and you must specify values
for these fields manually.
• If a Default Bin is defined for the To Store and you have not specified a value for
Transfer Core Qty., the system populates To Bin with the Default Bin.
• If no Default Bin is defined for the part in the To Store and you have not specified
a value for Transfer Core Qty., the system populates To Bin depending on
whether more than one bin stock record is defined for the part in the To Store. If
more than one bin-stock record is defined for the part in the To Store, the system
leaves the To Bin blank. If only one bin-stock record is defined for the part in the
To Store, the system populates To Bin with the Bin from the bin-stock record.
5. Click Add to List.
6. Click Submit Transaction.
The system immediately adjusts quantities available in the sending and receiving
warehouses.

Creating packages
Create, modify, and delete packages. Packages include multiple parts to be issue or returned
together. Transactions for packages can be viewed on the Transactions tab.
To create packages:
1. Select Materials > Held Items Management > Packaging.
2. Specify a description for the package.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify an organization for the package.
Note - Optionally, specify a note for the package.
Status - Specify the status of the package.
Class - Optionally, specify a class for the package.
4. Click Save.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

360 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Issuing and returning parts for packages
You can issue packages with a status of Approved and return packages with a status of
Issued.
1. Select Materials > Held Items Management > Packaging.
2. Select a package for which to issue or return parts, then right-click the screen and select
Issue/Return Parts.
3. If the status of the package is Approved, specify this information to issue the parts:
Issued To - Specify the employee to whom the parts are issued.
Cost Code - Optionally, specify the cost code with which to associate the issued parts.
Reference Number - Optionally, specify a reference number for the issued parts.
4. If the status of the package is Issued, specify this information to return the parts:
Issued To - Specify the employee to whom the parts are issued.
Return Qty. - Optionally, specify the return quantity for each part.
Reference Number - Optionally, specify a reference number for the issued parts.
Optionally, click Fill Return Qty. to return all available parts.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing transactions for packages
View transactions for approved and issued packages. You can view transaction details such
as Quantity, Date, To Store, and To Bin.
To view transactions:
1. Select Materials > Held Items Management > Packages.
2. Select the package for which to view transactions, and then click the Transactions tab.
3. View the transactions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

361 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Adding parts to packages
Add parts to a package. The package must have a status of Unfinished.
To add parts to a package:
1. Select Materials > Held Items Management > Packages.
2. Select the package to which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Specify this information:
Part - Select a part to add to the package.
Package Qty. - Specify the number of parts to add to the package.
If you select a part that is Tracked by Asset, the system sets Package Qty. to 1
and protects Package Qty.
4. Click Submit.

Transferring held items between stores
Transfer held items between bins in the same store or between stores.
1. Select Materials > Held Items Management > Held Items Transfer.
2. Specify this information:
Transfer Desc. - Specify a description for the transfer.
From Store - Specify the store from which to transfer the held item.
To Store - Specify the store to which to transfer the held item.
Default To Bin - Specify the default bin to which to transfer the held item.
Reference Number - Optionally, specify a reference number for the transfer.
3. Specify this information in the Transaction Details section:
Part - Specify a part to transfer.
Transfer Qty - Specify the number of parts to transfer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

362 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Print Qty. - Specify the quantity of the label(s) to print.
Print Qty. is automatically set based on the setting of Label Printing Default on the
Stores tab of the Parts form:

Option

Description

If set to No Labels

Print Qty. is null.

If set to Single Labels

Print Qty. is set to 1.

If set to Label for Each Item

Print Qty. is equal to the Transfer Qty., but you can
modify the Print Qty. as necessary. Updating Print
Qty. does not affect the Transfer Qty.

4. Click Add to List.
5. Click Submit Transaction to issue the part(s).

Transferring held items to stock bins
1. Select Materials > Held Items Management > Held Items to Stock Transfer.
2. Specify this information:
Transfer Desc. - Specify a description for the transfer.
From Store - Specify the store from which to transfer the held item.
To Store - Specify the store to which to transfer the held item.
Default To Bin - Specify the default bin to which to transfer the held item.
Reference Number - Optionally, specify a reference number for the transfer.
3. Specify this information in the Transaction Details section:
Part - Specify a part to transfer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

363 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Transfer Qty - Specify the number of parts to transfer.
To Bin - Specify the bin to which to transfer the part.
Print Qty. - Specify the quantity of the label(s) to print.
Print Qty. is automatically set based on the setting of Label Printing Default on the
Stores tab of the Parts form:

Option

Description

If set to No Labels

Print Qty. is null.

If set to Single Labels

Print Qty. is set to 1.

If set to Label for Each Item

Print Qty. is equal to the Transfer Qty., but you can
modify the Print Qty. as necessary. Updating Print
Qty. does not affect the Transfer Qty.

4. Click Add to List.
5. Click Submit Transaction to issue the part(s).

Transferring stock items to held item bins
Transfer stock items to held item bins.
To transfer stock items to held item bins:
1. Select Materials > Held Items Management > Stock to Held Items Transfer.
2. Specify this information:
Transfer Desc. - Specify a description for the transfer.
From Store - Specify the store from which to transfer the stock item.
To Store - Specify the store to which to transfer the stock item.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

364 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Default To Bin - Specify the default bin to which to transfer the stock item.
WO - Activity - Specify a WO - Activity with which to associate the transferred parts.
Reference Number - Optionally, specify a reference number for the transfer.
3. Specify this information in the Transaction Details section:
Part - Specify a part to transfer.
Transfer Qty - Specify the number of parts to transfer.
To Bin - Specify the bin to which to transfer the part.
Print Qty. - Specify the quantity of the label(s) to print.
The system automatically sets Print Qty. based on the setting of Label Printing
Default on the Stores tab of the Parts form:

Option

Description

If set to No Labels

Print Qty. is null.

If set to Single Labels

Print Qty. is set to 1.

If set to Label for Each Item

Print Qty. is equal to the Transfer Qty., but you can
modify the Print Qty. as necessary. Updating Print
Qty. does not affect the Transfer Qty.

4. Click Add to List.
5. Click Submit Transaction to issue the part(s).

Generating requisitions
Generate requisitions from low stock levels to automatically create requisitions based on a
stock replenishment method and specified generation options. The system provides three
stock replenishment methods: Min/Max, Reorder Level, and On-Demand. The system also

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

365 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

enables you to generate requisitions for external repairs of core tracked parts.
To generate requisitions from low stock, the system examines current stock levels in stores,
reserved parts, and parts specified on requisitions, purchase orders, and in transit. The
system then generates a default requisition for all parts below the acceptable level to reach
the specified stock level for the parts. The system will either generate a requisition for a
standard order quantity until the specified stock level is reached, or it will simply order the
necessary number of parts depending on the information you have specified for the stock
record.
If you are using the On-Demand method, there is no minimum quantity of the part to
maintain. The system generates a requisition for the part when there is demand for the part,
such as when there is a reservation for the part, but there is not enough of the part in stock to
fill the reservation. If you make reservations for an event in the distant future, the system
generates a requisition for the required materials. HxGN EAM recommends the
implementation of company policies to restrict reservation usage to a reasonable time frame
in order to minimize excessive inventory.
To implement a stock replenishment method, you must specify a stock method for the part
and specify a Minimum Qty., Maximum Qty., Order Qty., and/or a Reorder Level on the
stock record, depending on the stock method you have selected. You also must specify a
Preferred Supplier.
Set Auto Req. Status on the Stores form to Approved, and all stock requisitions
automatically generated for that store are created with a status of Approved. Otherwise, you
must manually approve all purchase requisitions generated with a status of Unfinished.
When generating requisitions, the system may generate more than one requisition. Based on
the parameters you specify on the Generate Requisitions form, the system may select part
lines with multiple store, supplier, and/or buyer combinations. When you click Generate, the
system generates a different requisition for each individual store/supplier/buyer combination.
The following table illustrates this concept.

Store

Store 1

Supplier

Supplier 1

Buyer

Req. Created

10000

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

366 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Store 1

Supplier 2

10001

Store 2

Supplier 1

10002

Store 2

Supplier 1

Buyer 1

10003

Store 2

Supplier 1

Buyer 2

10004

User limits do not apply on the Generate Requisitions tab.
1. Select Materials > Process > Generate Requisitions.
2. Select the saved selection parameters from the Parameter List.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization from which to generate the requisition if you
use multi-organization security.
Requesting Store - Specify the store for which requisitions should be generated.
To generate requisitions for all stores that begin within a specific letter, specify
the letter followed by a percentage sign. For example, if you want to generate
requisitions for all of your Houston locations, you specify ‘H%’ in Store.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for which requisitions should be generated.
Buyer - Specify the buyer of the parts for which requisitions should be generated.
Preferred Store - Specify the store for which requisitions should be generated if the
part in store is a store-to-store transfer.
ABC Class - Select the A, B, or C class of the parts for which requisitions should be
generated.
Part Class - Specify the class of the parts for which requisitions should be generated.
To generate requisitions for all part classes that begin within a specific letter,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

367 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

specify the letter followed by a percentage sign.
Requested By - Specify the name of the person requesting the requisitions.
Default Approver - Specify the name of the person approving the requisitions.
The system uses the information you supply in Default Approver to populate
Approved By on the Requisitions form. If Auto Req. Status on the Stores form is set
to A (Approved) and you do not specify a default approver, the system will populate
Approved By on the Requisitions form with your User ID.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code for the requisition.
Consignment Items - Select to generate requisitions for consignment items only.
Non-consignment Items - Select to generate requisitions for non-consignment items
only.
All Items - Select to generate requisitions for both consignment and non-consignment
items.
Generate Part Requisitions - Select to generate part requisitions.
To generate a requisition for parts that need to be purchased, you must set up
a Preferred Supplier on the Stores page of the Parts form or a Preferred Supplier on
the Record View page of the Parts form.
Generate Service Requisitions - Select to generate service requisitions.
Generate External Repair Requisitions - Select to generate external repair
requisitions.

If you select both Generate Part Requisitions and Generate External Repair
Requisitions, the system processes the external repair requisitions first so that the core
tracked parts will be repaired, rather than ordering new parts. Also, if you have selected
both Generate Purchase Requisitions and Generate External Repair Requisitions
and you need more than the quantity designated for repair, the system generates one
requisition with both a repair line and a purchase line.
To generate external repair requisitions for core tracked parts, the core tracked parts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

368 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

must meet the specified parameter criteria. The following information must also be true
or set up for a core tracked part on the Repair Details page of the Parts form to
generate a requisition for the part: Core Qty. must be greater than 0, External Repair
must be selected, you must have specified a Supplier for the part, and the Core Qty.
must be greater than or equal to the Min. Repair Qty.
If you set up a Preferred Supplier on the Repair Details page of the Parts form, but
you have not on the Stores page of the Part form, the system only generates lines of
type External Repair regardless of whether you selected both Generate Purchase
Requisitions and Generate External Repair Requisitions. If you have set up a
Preferred Supplier on the Stores page of the Parts form, but not on the Repair
Details page of the Parts form, the system only generates lines of type Stock
Purchase regardless of whether you selected both Generate Purchase Requisitions
and Generate External Repair Requisitions.
If you specified a Min. Repair Qty. on the Repair Details page of the Parts form, the
system only generates repair requisitions if the Core Qty. is greater than the Min.
Repair Qty.
If you selected Auto-Assign for a part on the Repair Details page of the Parts form,
the system will assign repair details for external repair parts automatically.
Generate Store-to-Store Requisitions - Select to generate store-to-store requisitions.
If you selected Generate Store-to-Store Requisitions, the system uses the
same formula used to calculate Requested Qty. for purchase requisitions.
Include Child Store(s) Qty. - Select to include the quantities for all child stores of the
selected Store in the requisition generation process.
Auto Select Records on Preview - Select to automatically select all records on the
Parts Preview and Services Preview tabs.
Print Requisition - Select to print the generated requisitions.
4. Click Process. Depending on the generation options you have selected, the system
retrieves part lines for low stock items and/or core tracked parts to be repaired
externally that are not listed on an existing requisition.
The system calculates the parts to be added to the requisition based on the following
equation and the generation options you have selected:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

369 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

(Qty. on Hand + Qty. at Shop + Qty. at Supplier + the quantity of
the part on requisitions + the quantity of the part on purchase
order without requisitions + in transit Qty. without req
uisitions) – (Reserved Qty. + Qty. Requisitioned from store) =
Quantity
If you are using the reorder level method
The system generates a requisition if the Quantity is less than or equal to the Reorder
Level. The system calculates the Requested Qty. as a multiple of the Order Qty. that is
necessary for the Quantity to reach a stock level greater than the Reorder Level.
If you are using the min/max method
The system generates a requisition if the Quantity is less than the Minimum Qty. The
system calculates the Requested Qty. as the difference of the Maximum Qty. and the
Quantity.
If you are using the on-demand method
The system generates a requisition if the Quantity is less than the quantity demanded.
The system calculates the Requested Qty. as being equal to the difference of the qty.
demanded and the Quantity.
5. Select the part lines for which to generate requisitions. The system automatically selects
all of the part lines. You may remove individual lines from the list by clearing the check
box. The system does not generate requisitions for unselected lines. The system
automatically selects all of the part lines. You may remove individual lines from the list
by clearing the check box. The system does not generate requisitions for unselected
lines.
The system never generates a requisition line for parts if Prevent Reorders is
selected on the Parts form.
6. Click Process.
Depending on your system configuration, the system may require an electronic
signature to authorize status initiations for requisitions. The system displays the
eSignature pop-up window when assigning a status for each requisition created.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

370 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Previewing parts for requisitions
View parts associated with requisitions being generated on the Generate Requisitions
screen.
1. Select Materials > Process > Generate Requisitions.
2. Specify the requisition parameters on the Parameters tab, and then click the Parts
Preview tab.
3. Select Print Requisition to print all the requisitions after generation.
4. Review the list of parts to be include in the requisition, and then click Generate.

Previewing services for requisitions
View services associated with requisitions being generated on the Generate Requisitions
screen.
To view services for the requisition:
1. Select Materials > Process > Generate Requisitions.
2. Specify the requisition parameters on the Parameters tab, and then click the Services
Preview tab.
3. Select Print Requisition to print all the requisitions after generation.
4. Review the list of services to be include in the requisition, and then click Generate.

Creating requisitions
Create requisitions on the Requisition form to request materials or services from outside
vendors. A requisition consists of a requisition header and requisition lines. You can create a
requisition for stock items, direct materials, or services. Stock items are materials that are
kept in store and are tracked for inventory. Direct materials are items that you requisition
specifically for work orders.
The life cycle of a requisition is controlled by the requisition status. When you create a
requisition, the system assigns Unfinished as the status of the requisition. After adding all of
the necessary line items to the requisition, you can update requisition status as necessary

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

371 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

based on your status change authorization privileges. Status change authorizations are set up
on the Status Authorizations form.
When updating requisition status, you can also update other information on the requisition.
However, the system enables and/or protects the fields available for update based on whether
or not lines have been added to the requisition, as well as the status to and from which you
are updating.
In addition to having the appropriate status change authorization to change the status of a
requisition, a user must also be granted sufficient monetary approval limits for requisitions on
the User form to approve a requisition. The LIMITLEV installation parameter determines
whether the system validates requisition approval limit authorizations on the header level or at
the line level, and if the total value of a requisition exceeds a user’s requisition approval at
either the header or the line level, then the user cannot approve the requisition.
The system automatically sets the currency of the requisition header and lines based on the
currency of the organization for which the requisition is being created. You can modify the
currency of a requisition line to enable you to requisition specific materials in a different
currency than the organization of the requisition header, as long as a valid exchange rate has
been defined for the currency to which you are changing the requisition line.
Once the requisition has been reviewed and updated as necessary, change the status to
Ready for printing and print the requisition if necessary. Then, change the status to
Approved/active to make the requisition available for purchasing. After the requisition is
approved, you can add it to a purchase order to be forwarded to a supplier.

Creating requisition headers
Create requisition headers to specify the supplier(s) from which to requisition parts.
To create requisition headers:
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to create the requisition. The
organization you select must be a specific organization to which you belong. The

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

372 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system automatically populates Entered By with the User ID of the logged in user and
inserts the current date in Date Requested.
Requisition - Specify a description of the requisition in the adjacent field. The system
assigns a requisition number after you save the record.
Status - Specify the status of the requisition.
Store - Specify the receiving store for the requisition if necessary.
If a Default Store is associated with the logged in user, the system will
automatically populate the Store. You can assign a Default Store to a Department
record. The Default Store can then be associated to a User ID by assigning a user to a
Department, which will then associate a Default Store with the User ID. However, if no
Default Store is associated with the logged-in user, then the system does not
automatically populate Store.
Requested By - Specify the employee requesting the items on the requisition.
Attention To - Specify the name or department that is receiving the part.
Delivery Address - Specify the address to which to deliver the items.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the requisition. The system automatically populates
Supplier Org.
When you select a supplier on the requisition header, the system automatically
assigns the selected supplier to each of the requisition lines, but you can modify the
supplier for requisition line items as necessary.
Class - Specify the class of the requisition. The classes shown belong to the REQ
entity.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code with which to associate the cost of the requisition.
Work Order–Activity - Specify the work order and activity for which the items are being
requisitioned.
When you specify a work order and activity at the requisition header level, the
system automatically assigns the selected work order and activity to each of the
requisition lines, and you cannot modify the work order or activity for requisition line
items.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

373 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Additionally, you can only select work orders of type JOB or PPM with a status of
Released or Closed for which the Date Completed on the work order is earlier than the
number of days set in the REQDAYS installation parameter.
If the selected Work Order–Activity is a multiple equipment work order, the system
enables Equipment and it is required.
Job - Enter the job for the selected work order-activity.
Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Specify a specific equipment to which to distribute the cost of the requisition.
• Specify All Equipment to evenly distribute the cost of the requisition to each
equipment record on the work order.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to distribute the cost of the requisition to the
equipment on the work order header only.
Default Approver - Specify the name of the person who will approve the
requisition.
4. Click Save Record.

• The system populates and/or updates the following fields as parts and services
are added to the requisition, or when the status of the requisition is changed or
approved: Part Lines, Service Lines, Requisition Lines, Total Part Value, Total
Service Value, Total Req. Value, Approved By, and Date Approved.
• If the status of the requisition is set to Rejected, Reject Reason becomes
required, and you must enter a reason for why the requisition was rejected.
• After you have added the requested parts/services to the requisition, click
Generate PO to manually generate a requisition.
• The system automatically selects Printed if you print the requisition.

Adding parts to requisitions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

374 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Add parts to requisitions after creating the requisition header.
If you do not know the part number of the part(s) to add to the requisition, you can search for
the part(s) using the supplier catalog reference number or the manufacturer part description.
The system automatically populates some fields on the requisition line with information
entered on the requisition header. For example, if a supplier is entered on the requisition
header, the system automatically designates that supplier as the supplier for each requisition
line. While the status of an individual requisition line is Unfinished, you can complete or
update information on the requisition line as necessary. However, the system protects some
fields that can be automatically populated from the requisition header.
Additionally, when you requisition a part cataloged on the Part form, the system also retrieves
information from the part record and automatically populates many fields. If you need to
requisition a part you have not yet created on the Part form, you can manually create a new
part as necessary. After adding all of the necessary parts to the requisition, update the Status
of the requisition as necessary based on your status change authorization privileges. Status
change authorizations are set up on the Status Authorizations. However, the system enables
and/or protects the fields available for update based on the status from which you are
updating the requisition.
To add parts to requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition to which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part Line.

• If the requisition line is generated from an RFQ, the system populates RFQ, RFQ
Org., Quotation, Quotation Org., and Quotation Line when the line is created.
• If an RFQ is generated from the requisition, the system populates RFQ, RFQ
Org., and RFQ Line once the RFQ line is created. When a Quotation line is
awarded for an associated RFQ line, the Quotation information is populated.
4. Specify this information:
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

375 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Manufacturer - Specify the manufacturer for the part.
Supp. Catalog Reference - Specify the reference number for the part from the supplier
catalog. If you enter a Supp. Catalog Reference, the system populates the Part, the
part description, Supplier, Exchange Rate, and the Price from the supplier’s catalog.

• If the part has no price in the supplier’s catalog, the system retrieves the price
from the stock record of the part.
• If you have entered a Supplier and you also enter a new Supplier Catalog
Reference, the system creates a new record of the part in the supplier’s catalog.
Manufacturer Part Number - Specify the manufacturer part number for the part. If
you enter a Manufacturer Part Number, the system populates the Manufacturer
and the part description.
If you have entered a Manufacturer and you also enter a new
Manufacturer Part Number, the system creates a new part record for the
manufacturer.
Part - Specify the part to add to the requisition. The system automatically
populates the part description and Part Org. and New Orders Not Allowed if the
system is flagged to prevent reorders of this part. If the part has been flagged to
prevent reorders, select a substitute part to continue.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If
the selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically
populate Condition.
Type - Select the part type for the requisitioned line.
If you select Direct materials as the Type for the requisition line, you must
enter a value for Work Order-Activity.
Line - Modify the line number of the part on the requisition if necessary. The
system automatically assigns the next incremental line number based on the
setting of the INCRLINO installation parameter.
You can only edit the Line number when inserting a record. After the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

376 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

record is saved, the system protects Line and it is read only.
Requested Qty. - Specify the requested quantity of the part.
Price - Specify the price of the part. The system automatically populates the
currency of the organization on the requisition header in the adjacent field.

• If you select a supplier on either the requisition line or header, the system
automatically populates Price with the part price from the supplier’s catalog.
Update the supplier on the requisition line as necessary.
• Additionally, if the EXRTUPDT installation parameter is set to YES, you can also
update the exchange rate for a requisition line when you modify the currency of
the requisition line. If you update the exchange rate for a requisition line, the
system recalculates the value of the requisition header based on the value of the
new exchange rate.
Status - Specify the status of the part. The system automatically assigns
Unfinished as the status of the part, or the equivalent user code status.
Requested Before - Specify the date before which the requisitioned part must be
received.
Attention To - Specify the name or department that is receiving the part.
Exchange Rate - Specify the exchange rate for the part on the requisition.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code with which to associate the cost of the
requisition.
Work Order–Activity - Specify the work order and activity for which the items are
being requisitioned.

• If a work order and activity are entered on the requisition header, the system also
populates Work Order-Activity with the work order and activity from the
requisition header and automatically set the Type for the requisition line to Direct
Purchase (PD). However, you can change the Type to Stock Purchase (PS), and
the system automatically clears the Work Order-Activity.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

377 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• If the selected Work Order-Activity is a multiple equipment work order, the
system enables Equipment and it is required.
Job - Specify the job for the selected work order-activity.
Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Specify a specific equipment to which to distribute the cost of the part.
• Specify All Equipment to evenly distribute the cost of the part to each equipment
record on the work order.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to distribute the cost of the part to the equipment
on the work order header only.
If the selected Part is tracked by asset, then the system clears
Equipment, Equipment Org., and Related Work Order because you cannot
distribute a part tracked by asset across multiple equipment.
Blanket Order–Line - Specify the blanket order line to associate with the part.
If you select a Blanket Order-Line, the system automatically populates
the Supplier, Supplier Catalog Reference, Part, Description, Part Org.,
Requested Qty., Price, UOM, Currency, and Buyer from the blanket order line.
Part and Description are protected.
If you enter a Part and then select a Blanket Order-Line, the system overwrites
the selected Part with the part from the blanket order line.
Quotation Indicator - Select one of the following options to indicate whether a
supplier quotation is required for requisitioning the part:

Option

Description

Price quote not requested

Select if a quotation is not required prior to
requisitioning the part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

378 of 2039

Request a price quote

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select if a quotation is required prior to
requisitioning the part.

Price quote requested before Select if a quotation is preferred but not required
PO
prior to purchasing the part.

Comments - Specify comments as necessary.
5. Specify the Buyer, Delivery Address, Expense Type, Commodity, and Comments.
6. Select the Inspection check box to indicate that the part requires inspection.
7. Select the Warranty check box to indicate that the part is covered under warranty.
8. Select the Track by Asset check box to indicate that the part is tracked by asset.
9. Click Submit. The system calculates the cost of the part line and populates Part Line
Total with the cost of the total value of the line.

• To manually create a part for a requisition when the part isn't listed in the supplier
catalog reference, or cataloged on the Parts form, click Create Part.
• To add multiple parts to a requisition, click Select Parts.
• To add an iProcure part, click Add Parts (iProcure Items).
• To update iProcure Items in the parts catalog, click Update iProcure Items.
• To view iProcure sync errors, click View iProcure Sync Errors.
• To select a substitute part for a part that has been prevented from reordering, click
Select Substitute Part.

Adding multiple parts to requisitions
Select and retrieve multiple parts for requisitions.
To add multiple parts to requisitions:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

379 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select a requisition for which to add multiple parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Select Parts.
4. Select the parts to add to the requisition.
5. Specify the Requested Qty.
6. Select Planned Part to add the parts to the WO-Activity as planned parts. This is only
available when Parts are defaulted in as Direct Materials.
7. Click Submit. The system creates a requisition line for each part.

Manually creating parts for requisitions
Manually create parts for requisitions when parts aren't listed in the supplier catalog reference
or cataloged on the Parts form.
To manually create parts for requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition for which to create parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Create Part. The system automatically populates Part with a sequential Part
number.
4. Specify this information:
Part Description - Specify a description for the part.
Part Org. - Modify the part organization as necessary.
This value depends on the settings for the IPSUPP parameter. If IPSUPP is set
to H and MOS is turned on, then the Part Org. defaults to the organization of the
requisition header but can be updated to any common organization. If IPSUPP is set to
S, then the Part Org. defaults to the organization of the supplier on the header. If
IPSUPP is set to C, then the Part Org. defaults to the common organization specified by
the install parameter IPSUPPC.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

380 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Type - Select the part type for the requisitioned line.
Line - Specify the line number for the part.
Line type cannot be External Repair.
Requested Qty. - Specify the requested quantity part of the part.
Price - Specify the price of the part. The system automatically populates the currency of
the organization on the requisition header in the adjacent field.
Requested Before - Specify the date before which the requisitioned part must be
received.
Attention To - Specify the name or department that is receiving the part.
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order and activity for which the items are being
requisitioned.
If a work order and activity are specified on the requisition header, the system
also populates Work Order-Activity with the work order and activity from the requisition
header and automatically set the Type for the requisition line to Direct Purchase (PD).
However, you can change the Type to Stock Purchase (PS), and the system
automatically clears the Work Order-Activity. If the selected Work Order-Activity is a
multiple equipment work order, the system enables Equipment and it is required.
Equipment - Choose one of the equipment options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Specify a specific equipment to which to distribute the cost of the part.
• Specify All Equipment to evenly distribute the cost of the part to each equipment
record on the work order.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to distribute the cost of the part to the equipment
on the work order header only.
If the selected Part is tracked by asset, then the system clears
Equipment, Equipment Org., and Related Work Order because you cannot
distribute a part tracked by asset across multiple equipment.
Exchange Rate - Specify the exchange rate for the part on the requisition.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

381 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Cost Code - Specify the cost code with which to associate the cost of the
requisition.
Blanket Order-Line - Specify the blanket order line to associate with the part.

• If you select a Blanket Order-Line, the system automatically populates the
Supplier, Supplier Catalog Reference, Part, Description, Part Org.,
Requested Qty., Price, UOM, Currency, and Buyer from the blanket order line.
Part and Description are protected.
• If you specify a Part and then select a Blanket Order-Line, the system overwrites
the selected Part with the part from the blanket order line.
Buyer - Specify the buyer for the part.
Delivery Address - Specify the delivery address for the part.
Inspection - Select to indicate that the part requires inspection.
Warranty - Select to indicate that the part is covered under warranty.
Track by Asset - Select to indicate that the part is tracked by asset.
Expense Type - Specify the expense type for the part.
Commodity - Specify the commodity for the part.
Category - Specify the category for the part.
Quotation Indicator - Select one of the options to indicate whether a supplier
quotation is required for requisitioning the part:

Option

Description

Price quote not requested

Select if a quotation is not required prior to
requisitioning the part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

382 of 2039

Request a price quote

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select if a quotation is required prior to
requisitioning the part.

Price quote requested before Select if a quotation is preferred but not required
PO
prior to purchasing the part.

Comments - Specify comments as necessary.
5. Click Submit. The system calculates the cost of the part line and populates Part Line
Total with the cost of the total value of the line.

• To delete a part, select the part to delete, and then click Delete Part Line.
• To add a comment, click Add/Edit Comments.
• To add an iProcure part, click Add Parts (iProcure Items).
• To update iProcure Items in the parts catalog, click Update iProcure Items.
• To view iProcure sync errors, click View iProcure Sync Errors. View the errors,
and then click Close.
• To assign repair details once the requisition line is approved, click Assign Repair
Details. If the selected part is not tracked by asset, the system will open the
Assign Repair Details popup. If the part is tracked by asset, the system will open
the Assign Asset Repair Details popup.

Selecting substitute parts
Select a substitute part for a requisition.
The system only displays parts that have been associated as substitutes on the
Parts form. The system does not display parts with Prevent Reorders selected on the Parts
form.
To select substitute parts:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

383 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition to which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Select the part line for which to substitute the part, and then click Select Substitute
Part.
4. Select the part to substitute, and then click OK. The system replaces the value for Part
with the newly selected part.

Adding services to requisitions
Add services to requisitions when your organization needs to hire external labor.
You can only add services to requisitions that have a status of Unfinished.
Requisition entry limits apply to adding services. Contact your system administrator if you do
not have sufficient requisition entry limits.
To add services to requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition to which to add a service, and then click the Services tab. The
system automatically populates Requested Before with the current date, Status with
Unfinished, and Type with Hours from service.

• The system automatically populates Work Order-Activity if a work order and
activity were entered on the selected requisition record.
• If the system populates Work Order-Activity, it also populates Trade, Price, Task,
and Hours Requestedbased on information entered for the selected Work OrderActivity and associated Task.
3. Click Add Service Line.

• If the requisition line is generated from an RFQ, the system populates RFQ, RFQ
Org., Quotation, Quotation Org., and Quotation Line when the line is created.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

384 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• If an RFQ is generated from the requisition, the system populates RFQ, RFQ
Org., and RFQ Line once the RFQ line is created. When a Quotation line is
awarded for an associated RFQ line, the Quotation information is populated.
4. Specify this information:
Supplier - Specify or modify the supplier for the service if necessary. If a supplier is
entered on the requisition header, the system automatically populates Supplier with the
designated supplier from the header. Specifying a supplier adds more detail to the
search criteria for assigning lines to requisitions.
The system automatically populates Supplier Org. with the organization of the
selected supplier. The system also populates Supplier Catalog Reference if a catalog
reference exists for the supplier.
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order and activity for the service. If Work
Order-Activity is entered on the requisition header, the system automatically populates
Work Order-Activity with the designated work order/activity from the header.

• The system can only automatically populate the requisition line with both the work
order/activity on the requisition header if Hired Labor is selected for the activity on
the work order. If the activity is not authorized for hired labor services, the system
leaves Activity blank, and you must either create or enter a valid activity.
• To create a work order and activity, click Create Work Order/Activity.
• If you select or create a Work Order-Activity, the system can automatically
populate a number of fields from the work order/activity depending on the data
entered on the work order/activity, such as the Equipment, Trade, Task Qty. (and
the unit of measure), Price (from the task record), Requested Before,
Equipment Org., Department, Task, Buyer, Warranty, and Commodity. The
system also automatically populates the Service Line Total with the total cost of
the services on the service line. If the work order/activity is associated with a
project and budget, the system populates the Project and Budget from the work
order/activity. If the selected Work Order-Activity is a multiple equipment work
order, the system enables Equipment and it is required.
Job - Specify the job attached to the work order activity.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

385 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Enter a specific equipment to which to distribute the cost of the services.
• Enter All Equipment to evenly distribute the cost of the services to each equipment
record on the work order.
• Enter WO Header Equipment to distribute the cost of the services to the
equipment on the work order header only.
When associating an order line with a multiple equipment work order, the
system copies the purchase order line to only the parent multiple equipment work
order activity. The system does not populate the purchase order line for the related
work order activities.
Line - Modify the line number of the service on the requisition if necessary. The
system automatically assigns the next incremental line number based on the
setting of the INCRLINO installation parameter.
You can only edit the Line number when inserting a record. After the
record is saved, Line is protected.
Price - Specify the price of the service.
If a supplier and work order/activity is associated with a trade but not a
task, the system populates Price with the supplier rate for the specified Trade. If a
supplier does not exist, the system populates Price with the rate specified for the
trade and department.
Requested Before - Specify the date before which the requisitioned service must
be completed.
Status - Select the status of the service.
If you try to change the line status to unfinished (U) from a previous status
of canceled (C) or rejected (R) when the status of the header is unfinished and the
Work Order-Activity is associated to another requisition line, the system displays
an error.
Cost Code - Select the cost code for the service. If a Cost Code is entered on the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

386 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

requisition header, the system automatically populates Cost Code with the
designated cost code from the header.
Delivery Address - Select the delivery address for the service. If a Delivery
Address is entered on the requisition header, the system automatically populates
Delivery Address with the designated delivery address from the header.
Expense Type - Select the expense type of the service.
Quotation Indicator - Select one of the options to indicate whether a supplier
quotation is required for requisitioning the part:

Option

Description

Price quote not requested

Select if a quotation is not required prior to
requisitioning the part.

Request a price quote

Select if a quotation is required prior to
requisitioning the part.

Price quote requested before Select if a quotation is preferred but not required
PO
prior to purchasing the part.

Type - Select one of the following options:

Options

Description

Contractor hire

Select if the requisitioned service is under contract. If you select Contractor hire, you must
enter a Trade. You cannot enter Work OrderActivity.

Fixed price

Select if the requisitioned service is to be paid
at a fixed price. If you select Fixed price, you

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

387 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

must enter a Work Order-Activity. The system
automatically populates Hours Requested with
1 and Price based on the rate entered for the
selected Trade.
If you enter a Supplier, the system
populates Price based on the supplier’s
catalog rate entered for the selected Task. If
you do not enter a Task, the system populates
Price based on the supplier’s rate entered for
the selected Trade.

Hours from service

Select if the requisitioned service is to be paid
at an hourly rate. If you select Hours from
service, you must enter a Work OrderActivity.

Hours Requested - Specify the number of estimated hours to complete the
service.
If Estimated Hours have been specified for the task, the system
establishes a ratio enabling you to enter Task Qty., which will then adjust the
Hours Requested. This ration is always based on the Task, never the activity.
Likewise, if you enter a value for Hours Requested, then the reverse will be true,
and the system will adjust the Task Qty. If there are no Estimated Hours
specified for the Task, then the Task Qty. and Hours Requested are not
connected. The system calculates the ratio between the Task Qty. and Hours
Requested based on the following formula:
Hours Requested / Task Qty. = Ratio
For example, if the Hours Requested are 1.5 and the Task Qty. is 1, the system
calculates the ratio between the two as follows:
1.5 / 1 = 1.5
If you update the Hours Requested to 4, then the system calculates the Task
Qty. as follows:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

388 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4 / 1.5 = 2.67
Since the reverse is true if you update the Task Qty., if you update Task Qty. to 4,
then the system calculates the Hours Requested as follows:
4 x 1.5 = 6
If you clear Hours Requested, the system retains the current value for Task Qty.
Buyer - Specify or modify the buyer of the service.
Warranty - Select if the service is covered under warranty.
Commodity - Specify or modify the commodity of the service.
5. Click Submit.

Copying requisitions
Copy requisition details to a new requisition.
To copy requisitions:
1. Create a requisition.
2. Right-click anywhere on the Requisitions form, and then select Copy Requisition.
3. Specify this information:
New Requisition - Specify the name of the new requisition. The system automatically
populates the New Requisition description.
4. Select the record types to copy, and then click Submit.

Creating work orders and activities on the Services page
Quickly create a work order and activity on the Services page of the Requisitions form
without having to open the Work Order form.
To create work orders and activities on the Services page:
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

389 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the requisition for which to create a work order and activity, and then click the
Services tab.
3. Click Create Work Order/Activity.
4. Specify the information necessary to create the work order.
If you enter a linear equipment record, the system displays Linear Reference
Details. Enter the linear equipment information.
5. Specify the information necessary to add the first activity to the work order.
6. Click Submit. The system populates Work Order-Activity on the Services page of the
Requisitions form.
Click Reset to clear all of the fields on the form.

Manually assigning repair details for core tracked parts on
requisitions
Manually assign repair details for core tracked parts on requisitions. If you did not select
Auto-Assign on a core tracked part record, you must manually assign repair details for the
repair parts on requisitions. Manually assigning repair details for parts enables you to
designate the store, bin, lot, and asset information to identify the parts to repair and their
location.
You can also change repair details that were created during the system’s automatic
assignment process using the Repair Details popup.
To manually assign repair details for core tracked parts on requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition to which to assign repair details, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Select the part to which to manually assign repair details. The system populates the
Part Details with the part information.
You can modify Requested Qty. for a repair part if necessary. If you make any
changes to Requested Qty., you can use the Repair Details popup to edit Qty.
Assigned as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

390 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You can only assign repair parts for Approved requisition lines.
4. Click Assign Repair Details. The system displays the Repair Details popup.
The system displays the Part and Part Org. of the selected part. Track by Asset is
selected if the part is tracked by asset. The system automatically populates Total Qty.
to Repair and Total Qty. Assigned. Total Qty. to Repair indicates the quantity of the
part that is currently in stock for repair. The Total Qty. Assigned indicates the quantity
of the part that is in stock for repair and has already been assigned to a repair bin
location.
5. Select the store, bin, lot, and asset from which to assign a quantity of the part to repair.
6. Specify this information:
Qty. Assigned - Specify the quantity of the part to assign for repair.
The value specified for Qty. Assigned cannot be greater than Core Qty.
7. Click Submit.
To delete a repair part line from the Parts on a requisition, select the repair part
line to delete, and then click Delete Repair Part.

Viewing open repairs for requisitions
View information about assets associated with requisitions that are listed as needing repair.
This tab will only display details when the associated PO Line has not been fully received
To view open repairs for requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition for which to view open repairs, and then click the Open Repairs
tab.
3. View the assets needing repair.

Viewing transactions for requisitions
View return transactions for the selected requisition.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

391 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To view transactions for requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition for which to view transactions, and then click the Transactions
tab.
3. View the transactions information.

Generating RFQs from requisitions
From a requisition, generate a request for quotations for parts and services.
To generate RFQs from requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition for which to request quotations, and then click the Record View
tab.
3. Right-click anywhere on the form, and then select Generate RFQ. The system
automatically populates Organization, Status, and Store.
4. Specify this information:
RFQ Description - Specify a description of the RFQ.
Currency - Specify the currency for the quotation.
Populate Suppliers - Select to have all requisition suppliers populated on the RFQ.
Requested By - Specify the employee requesting the quotation.
Requested Response Date - Specify the date by which to receive the quotation.
Buyer - Specify the buyer for the quotation.
Delivery Address - Specify the delivery address for the quotation.
5. Select the items to add to the RFQ before generating.
6. Click Generate. The system stores RFQ, RFQ Org., and RFQ Line on the requisition
line for the RFQ line created from that Requisition line. The system also updates the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

392 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Requisition System to Q (Quoting), populates RFQ with the newly created RFQ
number, and selects RFQ Required.
If Populate Suppliers is selected when a RFQ is being generated, the supplier
associated with the requisition line is added to the RFQ on the Suppliers tab. If the
same supplier is associated with multiple requisition lines, the supplier is added to the
RFQ only once.

Approving and rejecting purchasing requisitions
View a list of requisitions awaiting approval, and then either accept or reject the requisitions.
You must have sufficient status change authorizations to approve and reject
requisitions, and you cannot approve requisitions that exceed your requisition approval limit.

Approving requisitions
To approve requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Review/Approve Requisitions.
2. Select the requisitions to approve, and then click Approve. The approved requisitions
are removed from the list, and the system status of the requisitions is set to Approved.
Double-click a requisition to view its details.

Rejecting requisitions
To reject requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Review/Approve Requisitions.
2. Select the requisitions to reject, and then click Reject.
3. Specify the reason for rejection.
4. Specify this information:
Use Reason for All - Select if you are rejecting multiple requisitions and the reason for
rejection applies to all of the requisitions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

393 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click OK. The removes the rejected requisitions from the list, and sets the system status
of the requisitions to Rejected.

Understanding automatic purchase order generation
Users set up as buyers with the proper authorization can automatically generate purchase
orders with Unfinished, Ready for printing, or Approved status (or equivalent user codes) from
existing requisitions on the Generate POs form.
To grant users the authorization to generate and/or approve purchase orders from existing
requisitions, you must create the appropriate status change authorizations for generation for
the PORD entity on the Status Authorization form. You can also create equivalent user
codes for Unfinished, Ready for printing, or Approved status to which to assign to generated
purchase orders.
You must also have sufficient monetary approval limits for the purchase order line or header
level for Purchase Order or for PO Approval on the Users form to generate or approve the
purchase order.
The LIMITLEV installation parameter determines whether approval limits are set at the header
or line level. The system administrator can set LIMITLEV for Purchase Order and PO
Approval at either the header level or the line level on the Installation codes form.
If you attempt to create a purchase order that exceeds your monetary approval limits for the
purchase order line or header level, the system does not generate the purchase order.
The scenarios for automatic purchase order generation apply to both the purchase
order header and lines, and they are the same whether LIMITLEV is set to the header or line
level for Purchase Order Limit.
Additionally, if the ASSETASS installation parameter is set to P and any of the approved
requisition lines include parts tracked By Asset that have not been associated with objects,
you must create an asset for each part tracked By Asset.
When generating automatic purchase orders, the system may generate more than one
purchase order. Based on the search criteria you specify on the Generate PO form, the
system may return requisition lines with multiple store and/or supplier combinations. When
you select Create PO, the system generates a different purchase order for each individual
store/supplier combination. The following table illustrates this concept.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

394 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Requisition Number

Line

Store

Supplier

PO to be Created

10000

1

Store 1

Supplier 1

10000

10000

2

Store 1

Supplier 1

10000

10001

1

Store 2

Supplier 1

10001

10002

1

Store 1

Supplier 2

10002

10002

2

Store 2

Supplier 2

10003

If a requisition line contains a repairable spare part to be repaired externally and there are no
repair details assigned for the part via either the auto-assignment process or the Repair
Details popup, the system processes external repair lines as follows:
• If PO Status is Unfinished in Purchase Order Options, the system adds the external
repair part to a new or existing purchase order
• If the status of the purchase order is Ready for Printing, the system adds the external
repair part to a new purchase order
• If the status of the purchase order is Approved, the system does not add the external
repair part to either a new or existing purchase order, because a purchase order cannot
be Approved without repair details.
If an external repair part line has repair details assigned, the system adds the external repair
line to a new or existing purchase order when you generate the purchase order(s). When the
purchase order is Approved, the Requested Qty. of the part is moved from Core Qty. to Qty.
at Supplier on the stock record of the part, and it is also removed from the Core Qty. on the
bin stock record of the part.

Creating a new purchase order from requisition line items
Create a new purchase order from existing approved requisition line items to quickly move the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

395 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

requisition to the purchasing module. Approved requisition lines can be generated using the
Requisitions form.
If the installation parameter POCURR is set to NO, the system requires that all
requisition lines reference the same currency before it generates a purchase order.
Only users with the proper authorization can create purchase orders from existing requisitions
with an Unfinished status or equivalent user code.
To grant users the authorization to create purchase orders from existing requisitions
with Unfinished status, you must create the appropriate status authorizations for the PORD
entity on the Status Authorization form. You can also create an equivalent user code for the
Unfinished status to which to assign to generated purchase orders.
You may set monetary approval limits for the purchase order line or header level for
Purchase Order or for PO Approval on the Users form to generate and/or approve the
purchase order. Purchase order limits are specified per user if you do not use multiorganization security. If you do use multi-organization security, purchase order limits are
specified per user and organization. If your system administrator does not set monetary
approval limits, users with proper authorization will be able to generate and/or approve
purchase orders of any amount.
The LIMITLEV installation parameter determines whether approval limits are set at
the header or line level. The system administrator can set Purchase Order for generation
and/or PO Approval for approval at either the header level or the line level using the
LIMITLEV installation parameter on the Install Parameters form.
1. Select Purchasing > Process > Generate POs.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the requisition belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for which purchase orders should be created.
Store, Buyer, Requested By, Requisition - Specify the store, buyer, originator, and/or
requisition for which to create the purchase order.
To generate purchase orders for all stores, buyers, originators, and/or
requisitions that begin within a specific letter, enter the letter followed by a percentage

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

396 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

sign. For example, if you want to generate purchase orders for all of your Houston
stores, you enter ‘H%’ in Store.
Create PO - Select to create a new purchase order from the requisition lines.
You may also select Add to Existing PO.
PO Status - Select the status of the purchase order to be created.
Originator - Specify the originator of the purchase order to be created.
Delivery Address, Buyer - Specify a delivery address and/or buyer for the purchase
order to be created.
Print PO - Select to print a new purchase order from the requisition lines.
3. Click Process.
4. Select the requisition lines to associate with the PO. The system automatically selects
all of the requisition lines for which a supplier is specified. You may remove individual
lines from the list by clearing the check box. The line remains outstanding, and you can
assign it to a future purchase order.
To select all the lines at once, check Select. To clear all the lines at once, clear
Select.
5. If a supplier is not specified for a part, select a supplier for the part. Press F9 to display
the supplier lookup. The system automatically populates Supplier Org.
If the part does not currently exist in the supplier’s catalog, the system creates
a record for the part in the supplier’s catalog.
For parts that are included in a supplier’s catalog but do not have a Gross Price (for
purchases) or Repair Price (for repairs) recorded in the supplier catalog, the system
updates/inserts the Gross Price or Repair Price for the part in the supplier catalog
when the purchase order line is generated.
6. Click Generate. The system generates a purchase order, assigns the appropriate
system status, and assigns the organization of the purchase order based on the
organization of the store on the requisition.
Depending on your system configuration, the system requires an electronic

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

397 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

signature to authorize status initiations for purchase orders. The system displays the
eSignature pop-up window when assigning a status for the purchase order.

Adding requisition line items to an existing purchase order
Add requisition line items to an existing purchase order to quickly move the requisition to the
purchasing module. Requisition lines must be approved before they can be added to
purchase orders.
If the installation parameter POCURR is set to NO, all requisition lines must
reference the same currency before a purchase order is generated.
1. Select Purchasing > Process > Generate POs.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the requisition belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for which purchase orders should be created.
Store, Buyer, Requested By, Requisition - Specify the store, buyer, originator, and/or
requisition for which to create the purchase order.
To generate purchase orders for all stores, buyers, originators, and/or
requisitions that begin within a specific letter, enter the letter followed by a percentage
sign,. For example, if you want to generate purchase orders for all of your Houston
stores, you enter ‘H%’ in Store.
Add to Existing PO - Select to add the requisition lines to an existing purchase order.
You may also select Create PO.
Existing PO - Specify the PO number of the PO for which to add requisition lines.
Print PO - Select to print a new purchase order from the requisition lines.
3. Click Process to retrieve the requisition lines.
4. Select the requisition lines to associate with the PO. The system automatically selects
all of the requisition lines for which a supplier is specified. You may remove individual
lines from the list by clearing the line. Unselected lines remain outstanding, and you can

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

398 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

assign them to a future purchase order.
To select all the lines at once, check Select. To clear all the lines at once, clear
the Select check box.
5. If a supplier is not specified for a part, select a supplier for the part. Press F9 to display
the supplier lookup. The system automatically populates Supplier Org.
If the part does not currently exist in the supplier’s catalog, the system creates
a record for the part in the supplier’s catalog.
For parts that are included in a supplier’s catalog but do not have a Gross Price for
purchases or Repair Price for repairs recorded in the supplier catalog, the system
updates or inserts the Gross Price or Repair Price for the part in the supplier catalog
when the purchase order line is generated.
6. Click Generate.
Depending on your system configuration, the system requires an electronic
signature to authorize status initiations for purchase orders. The system displays the
eSignature pop-up window when assigning a status for the purchase order.

Receiving parts
Receive parts against existing purchase orders or for items purchased without a purchase
order such as credit card purchases.

Receiving parts against purchase orders
Receive parts against existing purchase orders. First, create purchase order receipt headers
so you can receive purchase orders to your location. Create your receipt header based on an
outstanding purchase order or for a specific supplier.
Once you create a receipt header, you can retrieve outstanding PO lines on the Active Lines
page. If you entered a purchase order on the receipt header, all outstanding part lines are
shown for the selected purchase order. If you entered a supplier and store on the receipt
header, all outstanding part lines are shown on all purchase orders for that supplier.
From the Active Lines page, select which parts to receive and identify bin and/or lot locations
to which to receive them.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

399 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

When you approve lines on a PO receipt, the lines are moved from the Active Lines page to
the Processed Lines page, the status of the receipt is changed from Unfinished to Approved,
and the received parts are added to stock unless otherwise indicated.
An automatic update for requisitions and purchase orders assigns a status of
Complete when all lines of the requisition or purchase order are received. If there are
subsequent returns affecting the requisition or purchase order, the system opens the affected
record and automatically changes the status accordingly. Four installation parameters apply
to this automatic update: RQSTRECV, RQSTALLR, POSTRECV, and POSTALLR.

Step 1: Create a non-purchase order receipt
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Non-PO Receipts.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Select the organization for which to create the non-purchase order
receipt if you use multi-organization security. You must belong to the organization you
select.
Non-PO Receipt - Specify a description of the non-PO receipt in the adjacent field. A
number is automatically assigned to the non-PO receipt once you save the record.
Status - Select the status of the non-PO receipt. An Unfinished status is automatically
assigned to the non-PO receipt, or the equivalent user code status.
If Hold for Work Order - Activity is specified on a line of the Parts tab, when
the transaction is approved, the part is received to Held Items rather than to stock.
Supplier - Specify the supplier from which the materials were purchased.
Store - Specify the store to which the materials were received.
Reference Number - Specify the reference number for the receipt transaction. The
reference number can be a credit card approval number, a verification code, a
transaction reference number, etc.
4. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

400 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Step 2: Record packing slip information for PO receipts
Record the packing slip information for PO Receipts when the packing slip contains lines for a
specific purchase order or contains lines from multiple purchase orders from the same
supplier. Once the packing slip information is recorded, the system automatically populates
the Active Lines page with the lines so that the lines may be received into inventory.
If your company procedure does not use packing slips, skip the packing slip step.
To record packing slip information for PO Receipts:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > PO Receipts.
2. Select the PO Receipt for which to record the packing slip, and then click the Packing
Slip tab.
3. Click Retrieve Lines. The system populates the Packing Slip list with outstanding part
lines based on the information you specified on the PO receipt header. The system
automatically populates Part, Part Description, Outstanding Qty. (UOP), and
Condition.
4. Specify this information:
Receipt Qty. (UOP) - Specify the number of items received in the unit of purchase.
Receipt Qty. (UOM) - Specify the number of the parts that were actually received.
Delivery Qty. (UOD) - Specify the number of delivery items, and then specify the unit of
measure per unit of delivery.
UOP per Delivery UOD - Specify the unit of purchase for the part per the unit of
delivery.
5. Click Record Packing Slip. The system records the packing slip lines, changes the
system status of the PO Receipt header to R (Packing Slip Recorded), and creates
active lines for the packing slip lines.

• The packing slip Receipt Qty. (UOM) is the value recorded for Receipt Qty.
(UOM) on the Active Lines page.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

401 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To remove a packing slip line, select the line to remove, and then click Remove
Line.
• To remove all packing slip lines, click Remove All Lines.
• To remove multiple packing slip lines, click Remove Multiple Lines. Select the
lines to remove, and then click Remove Selected Lines.

Step 3: Retrieve outstanding PO lines (skip packing slip)
Retrieve outstanding PO lines on the Active Lines page after you create the PO receipt
header. If you specified a purchase order on the receipt header, the system displays all
outstanding part lines for the selected purchase order. If you specified a supplier and store on
the receipt header, the system displays all outstanding part lines on all purchase orders for
that supplier and store combination.
If you are receiving a part tracked by asset, the system displays the part in quantities of one.
For example, you receive five motors that are tracked by asset, so the system displays the
motor on five separate lines.
1. Select Materials > Transactions > PO Receipts.
2. Select the PO receipt for which to retrieve PO lines, and then click the Active Lines tab.
3. Click Retrieve Parts (Skip Packing Slip). The system populates the Active Lines list
with outstanding part lines based on the information you specified on the PO receipt
header.

• If the purchase order line for which you are receiving parts is associated with a
multiple equipment work order, then the system populates Equipment,
Equipment Org., and Related Work Order from the values on the purchase
order line, and they are protected.
• To retrieve multiple parts, click Retrieve Multiple Parts, and then select the parts
to retrieve. Optionally, change the Receipt Qty (UOM).
• To remove individual lines from the Active Lines list, select the line from the Active
Lines list, and then click Cancel Line. The system cancels the record and updates
the Active Lines list. The line remains outstanding and you can add it to a future

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

402 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

PO receipt.
• To remove multiple lines, click Cancel Multiple Lines.
• To undo an individual line removal from the Active Lines list, click Undo Cancel
Line. The system changes the status of the line to Unfinished if the line has a
system status of Cancelled.
4. Select the part line for which to specify line details. The system populates the part
information including the Condition from the purchase order in Active Line Details.

• If the PDRCPTTO installation parameter is set to WO, the system automatically
selects Direct to WO. If PDRCPTTO is set to HELD, the system does not
automatically select Direct to WO.
• If the part is tracked by lot, By Lot is selected and protected.
5. Verify the number of parts received for each line and edit the information for each part
on the receipt as necessary.
6. Specify this information:
Repair Condition - Specify the repair condition if the part is for an external repair and
condition tracked.
Bin - Edit the bin number for the part.

• If you specified a default bin for the part in store on the part record, the system
automatically populates Bin with the default bin.
• If the part is for an external repair and tracked by condition, the system
automatically populates Bin with the default bin for the part associated with the
repair condition.
• The Bin may be required, optional, or protected depending on the value of the
HELDBINS org option.
Receipt Qty. (UOM) - The system automatically populates Receipt Qty. (UOM)

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

403 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

with the number of the parts that were actually received. The system populates
Receipt Qty. (UOP) with the actual number of items received in the unit of
purchase, and it is protected.
For example, if you received one case of the item, and each case contains 12
items, then the system displays 12 as the Receipt Qty. (UOM) and 1 as the
Receipt Qty. (UOP).

• If you received fewer or more parts than you ordered, edit the received quantity. To
edit Receipt Qty. (UOM), select the line to edit on the Active Lines list. The system
populates the line information in the Active Line Details.
• If you receive only a partial order, receive the materials, and then save the record.
When the rest of the order comes in, create a new PO receipt to close the
purchase order. You cannot modify the first PO receipt.
• If the part to receive is tracked by asset, the system creates a separate line for
each by asset part, populates the Receipt Qty. (UOM) with 1, and you must
specify an Asset ID for each part to receive.
• If you are receiving or scrapping core tracked parts from an external supplier
repair that were assigned from the same lot in a core bin, the system creates one
line for each part on the receipt and populates Receipt Qty. (UOM) with the
outstanding quantity of the part from the purchase order. If the external repair
parts were assigned from more than one lot in a core bin, the system also creates
one line for each part/lot combination on the receipt, but the system does not
populate Receipt Qty. (UOM).
• The system automatically populates the Qty. per UOP with the quantity of the part
per unit of purchase from the purchase order line.
• For parts tracked by asset, the Receipt Qty. (UOM) cannot be greater than the
outstanding quantity of the part on the purchase order. However, for parts that are
not tracked by asset, the Receipt Qty. (UOM) can be greater than the outstanding
quantity of the part on the purchase order if the OVERRECV installation parameter
is set to YES. If OVERRECV is set to NO, the Receipt Qty. (UOM) cannot be
greater than the outstanding quantity on the purchase order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

404 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Repair Price - If the part is a core tracked part to be repaired externally by a
supplier, specify the supplier’s price for repairing the part.
Repair Price is only enabled if the RPPRCCAL installation parameter is
set to YES and the part selected is a core tracked part from an external repair
purchase order line. If the RPPRCCAL installation parameter is set to NO, Repair
Price is protected regardless of whether the part is core tracked. If a part is core
tracked, the system enables Scrapped Qty. and protects Lot.
Asset Type - If the part is tracked by asset, specify the asset type for the part to
receive.
Department - Specify the department for the part to receive.

• For parts tracked by asset, an Asset ID and Department must be specified. The
system may automatically populate these fields depending on the ASSETASS and
AUTOANUM installation parameters.
• If the ASSETASS installation parameter is set to P for "Purchase Order", assets
are created for parts tracked by asset at the time you create the purchase order of
the parts to receive, and the assets are already associated with the parts to
receive. So, when you click Retrieve Parts, the system automatically populates
Asset ID, Asset Type, Asset Org., and Department and they are protected.
However, if the ASSETASS installation parameter is set to R for "Receipt", you
must create the assets to associate with each part tracked by asset at the time of
receipt, and you must specify Asset ID, Asset Org., and Department. Asset
Type is also required, and the system automatically populates Asset Type with
the Asset system type.
• If the AUTOANUM installation parameter is set to YES, the system will
automatically specify an asset number for each Asset ID when you click Approve
Parts.
Manufacturer Lot - Specify the manufacturer lot for the part to receive.
Expiration Date - Specify the expiration date for the part to receive.
Return Qty. - Specify a return quantity for the part to create a return transaction
for the part on the receipt. If you specify a Return Qty., the system enables

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

405 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Reason for Return. If you specify a Return Qty. and Reason for Return, the
system creates an approved return transaction for the supplier for all line types
(direct materials, parts tracked by asset, and/or core tracked parts) when you click
Approve All Parts.
Lot - Specify the lot for the part to receive as necessary.

• If LOTNRG is set to P, generate lot numbers for each receipt, or T, only generate
lot numbers for parts tracked by asset, the system does not automatically populate
Lot when you receive parts, and you can either specify a lot or select an existing
lot for the part. If you do not specify a lot, the system generates a lot for the part
when you click Approve Parts.
• If you specify a new lot, the system creates a new lot record for the specified lot,
and the lot will be available for future selection in the Lot lookups.
• If LOTNRG is set to "-", the system validates the lot based on the existing lots
lookup. However, if the SHOWLOT installation parameter is set to N, the system
does not generate any lot numbers regardless of the setting of the LOTNRG
installation parameter. Lot is hidden, and the system automatically populates Lot
with an asterisk (*) in the database.
• If the part to receive is core tracked, Lot is protected.
Asset ID - If the part is tracked by asset, specify the code identifying the asset to
associate with the part. The system automatically populates Asset Org.
Scrapped Qty. - If the part is core tracked, you can specify the quantity of the
parts to scrap because they cannot be repaired.
Print Qty. - Specify the quantity of the label(s) to print for the part to receive.
The system automatically sets the Print Qty. based on the setting of
Label Printing Default on the Stores tab of the Parts form:

Option

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

406 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If set to No Labels

Print Qty. is null.

If set to Single Labels

Print Qty. is set to 1.

If set to Label for Each Item

Print Qty. is equal to the Receipt Qty. (UOM), but
you can modify the Print Qty. as necessary.
Updating Print Qty. does not affect the Receipt
Qty. (UOM).

Click Print Label(s) to print labels for the part(s) to receive, and the system will
print labels based on your system configuration and the specified Print Qty.
7. After editing the part details for the part(s) on the receipt, click Submit.
8. Review the Active Lines list, and then click Approve All Parts.

• When you approve the receipt for external repair lines, the system moves Receipt
Qty. from the Qty. at Supplier to Qty. on Hand on the stock record of the part.
Scrapped Qty. is subtracted from Qty. at Supplier on the stock record, but it is
not added to Qty. on Hand.
• If the part is tracked by asset, the status of the associated asset is updated to
Purchased/In Store. If you scrap the part tracked by asset, the status of the
associated asset is updated to Withdrawn, and the status of any child assets in a
hierarchy are also updated to Withdrawn.
• If both Receipt Qty. and Scrapped Qty. are specified, the system creates one
transaction line of type RECV for both a receipt and the scrap transactions.
• If All Equipment is selected for Equipment on a line, the system creates a header
and line transaction for each Related Work Order activity associated with the
multiple equipment work order. Each transaction is used to receive the appropriate
number of parts for each equipment on the multiple equipment work order. The
quantity for each transaction is equal to the quotient of the Receipt Qty (UOM)
and the number of equipment on the multiple equipment work order. The system

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

407 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

automatically applies any remainder of the receipt quantity that cannot be evenly
distributed to the last equipment record on the Equipment page of the Work
Orders form.
• If a specific Equipment record is selected, then the system creates a transaction
for the Related Work Order associated with the selected Equipment and activity.
• If WO Header Equipment is selected for Equipment on a line, then the system
creates a transaction for only the work order on the purchase order line.
• When you approve the receipt for external repair lines and the part is condition
tracked, the system updates Qty. at Supplier for the purchase order line part
instead of the repair condition part. Qty. on Hand is updated for the repair
condition part instead of the purchase order line part. In addition, if the part is
tracked by asset and received, the status of the associated asset is updated to
Purchased/In Store. If you scrap the part tracked by asset, the status of the
associated asset is updated to Withdrawn.

Viewing processed lines for PO receipts
View processed lines for PO receipts to see purchase order lines that have already been
approved on a PO receipt. Once you approve a line on a PO receipt, the line cannot be used
with any other PO receipt. The system automatically moves lines from the Active Lines page
to the Processed Lines page when they are approved.
To view processed lines for PO receipts:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > PO Receipts.
2. Select the PO receipt for which to view processed lines, and then click the Processed
Lines tab.
3. View the processed lines information.
The system displays the following information for each processed line in the Processed
Lines list:

Field

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

408 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Line

Line number of the part on the receipt

Part

Code of the received part

Description

Description of the Part

Part Org.

Organization of the Part

Type

Type of part, such as Stock Items, Direct Materials, and
External Repairs

Received Qty.

Quantity of the part that was received

Scrapped Qty.

If the part is a repairable spare part, the system displays
the quantity of the part that was scrapped because it could
not be repaired.

Repair Price

If the part is a repairable spare part, the system displays
the price of repairing the part.

Originator

The User ID of the user from whom the stock transaction
originated

Bin

Bin into which the part was received for the receipt
transaction

Lot

Lot of the received part

Asset ID

Identification number of the associated asset

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

409 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Asset Type

Type of the associated asset

Asset Description

Description of the associated asset

Asset Org.

Organization of the associated asset

Department

Department of the part or asset

Serial number

Serial number of the part or asset

Manufacturer Lot

Lot of the part assigned by the manufacturer

Expiration Date

The date the price for the part expires

Purchase Order

Purchase order for which the part was received

Purchase Order Org.

Organization of the Purchase Order

Receipt Trans.

System-generated number identifying the part receipt

Return Trans.

System-generated number identifying the part return

Return Qty.

Number of the part that was returned for the receipt

Reason for Return

Explanation of why the part that was specified during the
receipt or return transaction was returned

Work Order

Work order for which the part was purchased or received

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

410 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Activity

Activity on the work order for which the part was purchased
or received

Direct

Indicates that the received part was for a purchase order
line type of Direct Materials

Equipment

The equipment for which the part was purchased or
received if the associated Work Order and activity is a
multiple equipment work order

Equipment Org.

Organization of the Equipment if the associated Work
Order and activity is a multiple equipment work order

Related Work Order

Number identifying the system-generated MEC work order
created for the Equipment if the associated Work Order
and activity is a multiple equipment work order

By Lot

Indicates that the part received is tracked by lot

Supplier Catalog
Reference

Number of the part in the supplier's part catalog

Assigned To

Employee code of the employee to whom the work order is
assigned

Name

Name of the employee to whom the work order is assigned

Receiving parts without purchase orders
Receive parts into a store without a purchase order to facilitate credit card purchases or any
other type of purchase made without using a purchase order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

411 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating non-purchase order receipts
Create non-purchase order receipts to receive parts into a store without a purchase order.
After creating a non-purchase order receipt, you can update the receipt status as necessary
based on your status change authorization privileges.
Status change authorizations are set up for the TRAN entity on the Status
Authorizations form. However, the fields available for update are enabled and/or protected
based on the status from which you are updating the receipt.
Step 1: Create a non-purchase order receipt

1. Select Materials > Transactions > Non-PO Receipts.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Select the organization for which to create the non-purchase order
receipt if you use multi-organization security. You must belong to the organization you
select.
Non-PO Receipt - Specify a description of the non-PO receipt in the adjacent field. A
number is automatically assigned to the non-PO receipt once you save the record.
Status - Select the status of the non-PO receipt. An Unfinished status is automatically
assigned to the non-PO receipt, or the equivalent user code status.
If Hold for Work Order - Activity is specified on a line of the Parts tab, when
the transaction is approved, the part is received to Held Items rather than to stock.
Supplier - Specify the supplier from which the materials were purchased.
Store - Specify the store to which the materials were received.
Reference Number - Specify the reference number for the receipt transaction. The
reference number can be a credit card approval number, a verification code, a
transaction reference number, and so forth.
4. Click Save Record.
Step 2: Add parts to a non-purchase order receipt

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

412 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Add parts to a non-purchase order receipt. Edit a part description if the part has not been
used in other parts of the system.
The Edit Parts Description pop-up is only available for parts with N class
designation. These are new parts created on the selected screen; parts which can have their
description changed. However, when the description is changed the part is no longer
accessible in the Edit Parts Description pop-up for editing.
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Non-PO Receipts.
2. Select the non-PO receipt for which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
To automatically create a new part record while adding the part to the Parts list,
click Create Part. A new Part Details record is inserted, a part record is created, and the
part record is assigned a part number beginning with ‘N’.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add to the non-PO receipt.
Track by Asset is automatically selected for parts tracked by asset, and you
must specify an Asset ID.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, Condition is automatically populated.
Receipt Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part that you received.
For parts tracked by asset, the part is only received in quantities of 1. 1 is
automatically assigned as the Receipt Qty. You must manually add lines for each asset
to receive if you want to receive more than one asset.
Bin - Specify the bin where the part should be stocked.
Lot - Specify the lot for the part.
Expiration Date - Specify the expiration date for the lot.
Manufacturer Lot - Specify the manufacturer lot for the part.
Hold for Work Order - Activity - Select the work order - activity if the part is a Direct

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

413 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Purchase. Otherwise, leave blank.
Print Qty. - Specify the quantity of the label(s) to print.
Print Qty. is automatically set based on the setting of Label Printing Default
on the Stores tab of the Part form:

Option

Description

If set to No Labels

Print Qty. is null.

If set to Single Labels

Print Qty. is set to 1.

If set to Label for Each Item

Print Qty. is equal to the Receipt Qty. (UOM), but
you can modify the Print Qty. as necessary. Updating
Print Qty. does not affect the Receipt Qty. (UOM).

Click Print Label(s) to print labels for the part(s) to receive, and the labels are printed
based on your system configuration and the specified Print Qty.
5. Specify this information:
Price - Specify the price of the part.
Asset ID - Specify the asset ID number for the part if the part is tracked by asset.
Asset Type - Specify the asset type for the part if the part is tracked by asset.
Asset Org. - Specify the organization for the asset for the part if the part is tracked by
asset.

• If the ASSETASS installation parameter is set to P, a by asset part must already
be associated with an asset with a status of Awaiting Purchase to receive the part.
If you want to receive a part tracked by asset, you must specify an Asset ID, but
all other asset-related fields are protected. After selecting an Asset ID, Asset

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

414 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Type, Asset Org., Description, Department, and Serial Number (if applicable)
are automatically populated.
• If the ASSETASS installation parameter is set to R, you can create assets when
you are receiving a part tracked by asset. You can either associate an existing
asset with the part, or you can manually specifyasset information to create new
assets. If you select an existing asset as the Asset ID, Asset Type, Asset Org.,
Department, and Serial Number (if applicable) are automatically populated from
the asset record. If you choose to manually specify the asset information, you
must specify an Asset ID, Asset Type, Asset Org., and Description for each
asset. Asset Type is automatically populated with type A (or the system
equivalent); however, you can update the Asset Type as necessary.
• If the AUTOANUM installation parameter is set to YES and the ASSETASS
installation parameter is set to R, the asset numbers are automatically generated
for parts tracked by asset, but you must specify an Asset Type, Asset Org., and
Description for each asset. You can also update Asset ID if necessary. Asset
Type is automatically populated with type A (or the system equivalent); however,
you can update the Asset Type as necessary. When you save the record, the
asset information is saved on the receipt; however, no assets are actually created
until the receipt Status is Approved. Upon approval of the receipt, all of the new
assets are created using the part descriptions.
Serial Number - Specify the serial number for the part if the part is tracked by
asset.
6. Click Submit.
7. Optionally, to edit a part description, click Edit Parts Description. Specify the new part
description, and then click Submit.

Issuing and returning parts
Issue parts from stores to work orders, equipment, or projects. Return unused parts and parts
needing repair to stores.

Issuing parts to work orders, equipment, or projects
If you have selected FIFO or LIFO as your pricing method, the system calculates the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

415 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

transaction price of issues to work orders, equipment, or projects using the R5FIFO table,
rather than retrieving the base price from the R5PARTS or R5STOCK table.
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Issue/Return Parts.
Transaction Type is automatically populated with Issue to enable issue functionality.
2. Specify this information:
Store - Specify the store from which to issue parts. If a default store is defined for the
current user,Store is automatically populated with the user’s default store.
Choose one of the following options to issue to a work order, piece of equipment, or
project:

Option

Description

Issue to a work order

Specify the Work Order-Activity.
Equipment, Equipment Org., Project-Budget, Cost
Code, and Department are automatically populated
from the work order, as well as the Material List or
Pick Ticket if they have been associated with the
Activity.

Issue to a piece of equipment

Specify the Equipment. Cost Code and Department
are automatically populated.
If the selected Equipment is associated with
a multiple equipment work order, then Equipment
Org. and Related Work Order are also populated.
If you select All Equipment for Equipment and you
are issuing a By Asset part, then Transaction
Details is cleared.

Issue to a project

Specify the Project-Budget and Department.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

416 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Date - Modify the date on which to make the issue.
Department - Specify the department of the store, work order/activity, project/budget, or
equipment. Department is automatically populated if you have selected a work
order/activity or piece of equipment.
Issue To - Specify the code of the employee to whom to make the issue.
Reference Number - Specify a reference number for the issue. The reference number
is simply an internal reference number that is not used by the system for any validation.
3. Specify the following to issue a work order:
Material List - Specify the material list from which to issue. If a material list is already
attached with the selected work order/activity, Material List is automatically populated
in the Issue From/Return To section, and the Material List hyperlink is enabled in the
Transaction Details section. You can modify Material List as necessary when the
parts on the material list have been added to the Transaction Details list.
Pick Ticket - Specify the pick ticket from which to issue. If a pick ticket is already
attached with the selected work order/activity, Pick Ticket is automatically populated in
the Issue From/Return To section and the Pick Ticket hyperlink is enabled in the
Transaction Details section. You can modify Pick Ticket as necessary when the parts on
the pick ticket have been added to the Transaction Details list.
Pick tickets are not available for issuing parts to a project/budget.
If the selected WO-Activity associated with the Pick Ticket is a multiple equipment
work order, then Equipment is automatically populated with WO Header Equipment.
4. Choose one of the following options in Actions:
• If the parts have been included on a material list, click Material List
• If the parts have been included on a pick ticket, click Pick Ticket.
• If purchased parts were delivered and are ready for distribution, click Held Items.
• If stock parts are reserved for this work order, click Reserved Items.
5. Specify these transaction details:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

417 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Part - Specify the part to issue. The available quantity, the bin location, and the lot
number are shown. Change the bin location and lot number as necessary. Available
Qty. is automatically populated with the sum of the quantities of the part in all the bins in
the selected Store minus any quantity of the part that is currently allocated to any work
orders.
If the part to issue is tracked by asset, Track by Asset is automatically selected, and 1
is specified as the Transaction Qty., and you must specify a value for Asset ID for the
part. Available Qty. is populated with the total quantity of the part that is currently
available.
Available Qty. UOM and Transaction Qty. UOM are automatically populated.
You cannot specify a Transaction Qty. greater than 1 when issuing parts
tracked by asset. If you want to issue multiple quantities of a part tracked by asset, you
must add the part tracked by asset to the Transaction Details list on individual lines with
a Transaction Qty. of 1 until you have reached the number of the part tracked by asset
that you wish to issue for the transaction. Track by Asset is hidden by default.
If the part to issue is tracked as part of a kit, a single transaction line is created for the
kit.
Lot - Select the lot from which to issue the part. Expiration Date, Serial Number, and
Manufacturer Lot are automatically populated.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, Condition is automatically populated.
Bin - Select the bin from which to issue the part. The default bin is specified for the part
if applicable.
When you select a Bin, the Available Qty. is updated with the quantity of the
part in the selected
Bin minus any quantity of the part that is currently allocated to any work orders from
that Bin.
Transaction Qty. - Specify the number of parts to issue. The Available Qty. of the part is
automatically specified if applicable.
Print Qty. - Specify the quantity of the label(s) to print for the part to receive.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

418 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system automatically sets the Print Qty. based on the setting of Label
Printing Default on the Stores tab of the Parts form:

Option

Description

If set to No Labels

Print Qty. is null.

If set to Single Labels

Print Qty. is set to 1.

If set to Label for Each Item

Print Qty. is equal to the Receipt Qty., but you can
modify the Print Qty. as necessary. Updating Print
Qty. does not affect the Receipt Qty.

Print Core Return Qty. - Specify the quantity of the core return label(s) to print.
Core Return - Select this check box to indicate the part being issues is core tracked
and should be returned to the core.
6. Click Add to List.
The Transaction Details list acts as a buffer to temporarily store the parts to
issue without actually issuing them until the transaction is submitted. You can
add/remove parts for the issue as necessary before submitting the transaction and
saving the information to the database. Click Add Part to add additional parts to the
issue. To remove a part from the Transaction Details list, select the part record to
remove from the issue, and then click Remove from List.
Additionally, you can also update information in the Issue To/Return From and the
Issue From/Return To sections for the transaction as necessary before adding records
to the Transaction Details list.
7. Optionally, specify these part failure options:
Failed Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part that failed.
Part failures are not allowed on an issue for parts tracked by asset.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

419 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Date Failed - Specify the date the part failed.
Problem Code - Specify the code of the problem for the failed part.
Failure Code - Specify the reason that the part failed.
Action Code - Specify the action taken to correct the problem.
Cause Code - Specify the problem cause code.
Failure Notes - Specify comments about the failure.
8. Click Submit Transaction. The part(s) is issued and a stock transaction of type I is
created for the issuing store with a negative quantity for the issue.
9. Optionally, to print labels for the issue transactions, click Print Label(s), and to print
labels for the core return transactions, click Print Core Return Label(s).
10. Optionally, to record a stockout for a part, select the part, and then click Record
Stockouts.

Issuing parts to multiple equipment work orders
Issue parts from stores to multiple equipment work orders.
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Issue/Return Parts.
2. Specify this information:
Store - Specify the store from which to issue the part(s). If a default store is defined for
the current user, Store is automatically populated with the user’s default store.
Date is automatically populated with the current system date and Transaction Type
with Issue to enable issue functionality.
WO-Activity - Specify the multiple equipment work order/activity to which to issue the
part.
Equipment is automatically populated with All Equipment. Related Work Order, Cost
Code, and Department are also populated from the selected WO-Activity. Equipment
is required and Related Work Order is protected.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

420 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If the selected multiple equipment WO-Activity is associated with a project/budget, then
Project–Budget is automatically populated, and it is protected. If the selected WOActivity is associated with a pick ticket, Pick Ticket is automatically populated from the
associated WO-Activity or Equipment record.
The work orders in the WO-Activity lookup are not shown for which the value
specified for the ISSDAYS installation parameter has been exceeded.
If the selected multiple equipment WO-Activity has reserved parts and not all parts
have been issued, then the Reserved Items hyperlink is enabled. Click Reserved
Items to retrieve the relevant part information to the Transaction Details list.
If the selected multiple equipment WO-Activity or any of its related work orders have
direct material parts that have been purchased and All Equipment is selected for
Equipment, then the Held Items hyperlink is enabled. Click Held Items to retrieve the
relevant part information to the Transaction Details list.
Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Specify a specific equipment to which to issue the Transaction Qty.
• Specify All Equipment to evenly to issue the Transaction Qty. to each equipment
record on the work order.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to issue the Transaction Qty. to the equipment on
the work order header only.
Any remainder of the Transaction Qty. that could not be distributed
evenly is automatically applied to the last equipment record on the Equipment
page of the Work Orders form.
If you select All Equipment and at least one of the related work orders has a
Completed status (or equivalent user status), the a message enabling you to
select whether to distribute the cost of the issue against all equipment or against
only open related work orders regardless of whether the related work orders are
Open or Completed (or their user-status equivalents) is shown.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code for which to issue the part. The description is
poplated in the adjacent field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

421 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Issue To - Specify the code of the employee to whom to make the issue.
Reference Number - Specify a reference number for the issue. The reference
number is simply an internal reference number that is not used by the system for
any validation.
Material List - Specify the material list from which to issue parts for the multiple
equipment work order.
Pick Ticket - Specify the pick ticket from which to issue parts for the multiple
equipment work order. The WO Header Equipment is automatically selected for
Equipment and the Pick Ticket hyperlink is enabled in the Transaction Details.
If a pick ticket is associated with the selected multiple equipment WOActivity, then you cannot select another value for Equipment other than WO
Header Equipment. Pick tickets cannot be used to issue parts across all
equipment on a multiple equipment work order or to a specific equipment on a
work order.
Department - Modify the department of the work order.
Date - Modify the date on which to make the issue.
Part - Specify the part to issue. The available quantity, the bin location, and the lot
number are shown. Change the bin location and lot number as necessary.
Available Qty. is populated with the sum of the quantities of the part in all the bins
in the selected Store minus any quantity of the part that is currently allocated to
any work orders. Asset ID and Tool Hours are protected.
You cannot distribute issues of parts tracked by asset to All Equipment on a
multiple equipment work order. If All Equipment is selected for Equipment, then
the lookup for Part displays only unique parts issued to the work order header or
any of the related work orders.
If you are issuing a part tracked by asset to a specific Equipment on a multiple
equipment work order, the lookup for Part displays only the parts issued to the
individual equipment record on the Related Work Order.
Bin - Specify the bin from which to issue the part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

422 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The default bin for the part is specified if applicable. When you select a Bin, the
Available Qty. is updated with the quantity of the part in the selected Bin minus
any quantity of the part that is currently allocated to any work orders from that Bin.
Available Qty. UOM and Transaction Qty. UOM are automatically populated.
Lot - Specify the lot from which to issue the part.
Expiration Date, Serial Number, and Manufacturer Lot are automatically
populated.
Transaction Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part to issue.
If the part to issue is tracked by asset, Track by Asset is automatically selected,
and 1 is specified as the Transaction Qty., and you must specify a value for
Asset ID for the part. Available Qty. is populated with the total quantity of the part
that is currently available.
You cannot specify a Transaction Qty. greater than 1 when issuing parts
tracked by asset. If you want to issue multiple quantities of a part tracked by asset,
you must add the part tracked by asset to the Transaction Details list on individual
lines with a Transaction Qty. of 1 until you have reached the number of the part
tracked by asset that you wish to issue for the transaction. Track by Asset is
hidden by default.
When issuing parts to a multiple equipment work order for which All Equipment is
selected, parts tracked by asset are not available for issue, and the Transaction
Qty. is split equally among all the related work orders.
Print Qty. - Specify the quantity of the label(s) to print for the part to receive.
The system automatically sets the Print Qty. based on the setting of
Label Printing Default on the Stores tab of the Parts form:

Option

Description

If set to No Labels

Print Qty. is null.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

423 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If set to Single Labels

Print Qty. is set to 1.

If set to Label for Each Item

Print Qty. is equal to the Receipt Qty., but you
can modify the Print Qty. as necessary. Updating
Print Qty. does not affect the Receipt Qty.

3. Click Add to List.
The Transaction Details list acts as a buffer to temporarily store the parts to
issue without actually issuing them until the transaction is submitted. You can
add/remove parts for the issue as necessary before submitting the transaction and
saving the information to the database. Click Add Part to add additional parts to the
issue.
To remove a part, select the part record to remove, and then click Remove from List.
The Transaction Details list is updated.
4. Click Submit Transaction. The part(s) is issued and a stock transaction of type I is
created for the issuing store with a negative quantity for the issue.
To print labels for the issue transaction, click Print Label(s).
If the AUTOPART installation parameter is set to AUTO, then it is determined whether
each part is associated with the equipment’s Parts Associated list. If any of the parts are
not associated with the equipment’s Parts Associated list, the list is updated with the
parts and the Transaction Qty. is assigned as the part’s associated Quantity. If a part is
already associated but the Transaction Qty. is greater than the existing associated
Quantity, then the associated Quantity is updated with the Transaction Qty. The
existing associated Quantity is not updated if the Transaction Qty. is not greater.
If the AUTOPART installation parameter is set to AUTO-TAG, the scenario is the same
as when it is set to AUTO; except if the equipment is a position, has one or more
children, and only one of these children is an asset. In this case, the child asset is
updated rather than the equipment.

Adding parts on a material list to an issue

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

424 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Add parts on a material list to an issue on the Issue/Return Parts form. If you enter a Material
List on an issue header, the system enables the Material List hyperlink in the Transaction
Details enabling you to add the parts on the material list to the issue. You can select which
parts to add, and you can also modify the Bin, Lot, and Transaction Qty. for the part(s) to
add to the issue.
You can issue parts on a defined material list to a WO–Activity multiple times. However, you
can only issue parts on a temporary material list created by selecting parts for a work order to
the work order for which the temporary list is created.
If the material list includes parts that are associated with equipment codes or equipment
categories, the system only adds part records to the Transaction Details list that are
associated with the equipment on the header or the equipment category or parts that are not
associated with any equipment or equipment category.
Example:

You create MATERIAL LIST 1 with the following parts:

Line Number

Part

Quantity

Equipment

1

PART1

1

EQUIP1

2

PART2

1

EQUIP2

3

PART3

1

5

PART4

2

EQUIP4

6

PART4

3

EQUIP1

7

PART4

4

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

425 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

8

PART5

1

CATEGORY1

9

PART6

1

CATEGORY2

You then create a work order WO1 for EQUIP1 of CATEGORY1. After creating the WO1, you
open the Issue/Return Parts form to issue parts to WO1. You enter MATERIAL LIST 1 as the
Material List on the issue header and then click the Material List hyperlink, and then the
system retrieves the following parts and quantities:

Part

Quantity

PART1

1

PART3

1

PART3

1

PART4

3

PART4

4

PART5

1

If a part on a material list is tracked by asset, then each by asset part on the material
list is entered on a separate line regardless of the Available Qty. and the system
automatically enters 1 as the Transaction Qty.
To add parts on a material list to an issue:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Issue/Return Parts.
2. Specify a WO–Activity, Project–Budget, or Equipment as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

426 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Specify this information:
Material List - Specify the material list from which to issue parts.
Department - Specify the department against which to issue the parts from the material
list.
Date - Modify the date as necessary.
4. Click Material List.
5. Select the part on the material list for which to update the transaction details.
6. Modify this information as needed:
Bin - Modify the bin from which to issue the parts on the material list if necessary.
Lot - Modify the lot from which to issue the parts on the material list if necessary.
Transaction Qty. - Update the number of parts to issue from the pick ticket as
necessary.
7. Click Add to List.
The Transaction Details list acts as a buffer to temporarily store the parts to
issue without actually issuing them until the transaction is submitted. You can add and
remove parts for the issue before submitting the transaction and saving the information
to the database.
To remove a part from the pick ticket from the Transaction Details list, select the part
record to remove from the issue, and then click Remove from List.
8. Update additional parts from the material list as necessary.

Adding parts on a pick ticket to an issue/return
Add parts on a pick ticket to an issue/return on the Issue/Return Parts form. To issue parts
from a pick ticket, the status of the pick ticket must be Approved, and a pick ticket can only be
used for the work order or equipment for which it was created.
If you enter a Pick Ticket on an issue header, the system enables the Pick Ticket hyperlink in
the Transaction Details for adding the parts on the pick ticket to the issue. You can select

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

427 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

which parts to add, and you can also modify the Bin, Lot, and Transaction Qty. for the part(s)
to add to the issue.
The setting of the PICKONCE installation parameter determines whether you can issue parts
on a pick ticket for multiple transactions for the same WO-Activity. If PICKONCE is set to
YES, the system will not automatically enter a Pick Ticket for the WO-Activity in the issue
header if an issue transaction for the pick ticket already exists for the WO-Activity; and you
cannot select the pick ticket from the Pick Ticket lookup. If PICKONCE is set to NO, then you
can reuse the same pick ticket for more than one transaction for a WO-Activity, but the
system will only retrieve parts to the issue transaction that were not previously issued.
You can only issue more parts than the specified Required Qty. for the part on a pick
ticket if there is a sufficient Available Qty. for the part.
Once a pick ticket has been fully issued and fully returned, the system sets the status of the
pick ticket to Closed and the pick ticket is no longer available for use, even if PICKONCE is
set to NO.
If a part on a pick ticket is tracked by asset, then each by asset part on the pick ticket is
entered on a separate line regardless of the Available Qty. and the system automatically
enters 1 as the Transaction Qty.
To add parts from a pick ticket to an issue:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Issue/Return Parts.
2. Specify this information:
Pick Ticket - Specify the pick ticket from which to issue parts. The system enables the
Pick Ticket hyperlink in the Transaction Details.
3. Click Pick Ticket. The system populates the Transaction Details list with the Parts on
the pick ticket and protects all the information on the issue header.
4. Select the part on the pick ticket for which to update the transaction details. The system
populates the Transaction Details.
The system automatically populates Bin, Lot, and Transaction Qty. The Transaction
Qty. is equal to the Required Qty. specified for the part on the pick ticket.
The system automatically populates Part, Part Description, Asset ID, Available Qty.,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

428 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Transaction Qty. UOM, and Available Qty. UOM; they are protected.
5. Modify this information as necessary:
Bin - Modify the bin from which to issue the parts on the pick ticket if necessary.
Lot - Modify the lot from which to issue the parts on the pick ticket if necessary.
Transaction Qty. - Modify the number of parts to issue from the pick ticket as
necessary.
6. Click Add to List. The system updates the Transaction Details list.
The Transaction Details list acts as a buffer to temporarily store the parts to
issue without actually issuing them until the transaction is submitted. You can
add/remove parts for the issue before submitting the transaction and saving the
information to the database.
To remove a part from the pick ticket from the Transaction Details list, select the part
record to remove from the issue, and then click Remove from List.
7. Update additional parts from the pick ticket as necessary.

Returning parts from work orders, equipment, or projects
Return unused parts issued to work orders, equipment, or projects to stores.
Note: If you have selected FIFO or LIFO as your pricing method, the system calculates the
transaction price of returns from work orders, equipment, or projects using the R5FIFO table,
rather than retrieving the base price from the R5PARTS or R5STOCK table.
See Understanding time-based inventory valuation (LIFO/FIFO).
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Issue/Return Parts.
2. Specify this information:
Transaction Type - Select Return to enable return functionality.
Store - Specify the store to which to return the parts. Date is automatically populated
with the current system date. If a default store is defined for the current user, Store is
automatically populated with the user's default store.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

429 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Choose one of the return options:

Option

Description

Return from a work order

Specify the Work Order-Activity.
Equipment, Project-Budget, Cost Code, and
Department are automatically populated from the
work order, as well as the Material List or Pick
Ticket if they have been associated with the Activity.
Only work orders in the WO-Activity lookup
for which the value specified for the RTNDAYS
installation parameter has been exceeded are
displayed.

Return from a piece of
equipment

Specify the Equipment.
If selected Equipment is associated with a pick
ticket, the pick ticket details are automatically
populated from the associated Equipment record.
If the selected Equipment is associated with
a multiple equipment work order, then Equipment
Org. and Related Work Order are automatically
populated.
See Returning parts from multiple equipment work
orders.
If you select All Equipment for Equipment and you
are issuing a By Asset part, then the Transaction
Details are cleared.

Return from a project

Select the Project-Budget and Department.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

430 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Reference Number - Specify a reference number for the return.
Material List - Specify the material list from which to return.
Pick Ticket - Specify the pick ticket if a pick ticket is associated with the return. If you
are returning parts from a work order or piece of equipment that is associated with a
pick ticket and the PICKONCE installation parameter is set to YES, then the system
does not display the associated pick ticket in the Pick Ticket lookup.
If you are returning parts from a work order or piece of equipment that is associated with
a pick ticket and the PICKONCE installation parameter is set to NO, the system enables
you to select the associated pick ticket from the Pick Ticket lookup. However, once you
have selected a value for Pick Ticket, the system only displays parts issued for the pick
ticket in the Part lookup, and you can only return the parts issued from the pick ticket.
If there are no parts on the selected pick ticket, or if no parts on the pick ticket
are held in store, the system displays an error message when you click Pick Ticket
hyperlink.
If the work order associated with the selected Pick Ticket is a multiple equipment work
order, then the system automatically populates Equipment with the WO Header
Equipment.
Department - Specify the department to which to return parts. The system automatically
populates Department if you have selected a work order/activity or piece of equipment.
Date - Modify the date on which to make the return. The system automatically populates
Date with the current date and time.
Part - Specify the part to return. The system displays parts in the Part lookup based on
the setting of the RTNANY installation parameter and whether you are returning to a
work order, a piece of equipment, or a project.
If the Work Order selected for the return is a multiple equipment work order,
the system displays only parts issued to the header work order or any of the related
MEC work orders in the list of values, because Equipment is automatically populated
with All Equipment. When you select the part to return, the system automatically
populates Transaction Qty., Bin, and Lot. The Transaction Qty. is the difference of the
total quantity issued to all equipment on the work order and the quantity already

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

431 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

returned from all equipment on the work order. You can modify the Transaction Qty.,
Bin, and Lot as necessary and add additional equipment to the Parts list.
If the part to return is tracked by asset, the system automatically selects Track By
Asset, specifies 1 as the Transaction Qty., and you must specify a value for Asset ID
for the part. The system automatically populates Available Qty. of 1 until you have
reached the number of the part tracked by asset that you wish to return for the
transaction.
If the part is a core tracked part, the system enables Core Return. If you select Core
Return, the system populates Bin with the Default Core Bin. If the Default Core Bin
overwrites a different bin, then the system clears the Lot, Expiration Date, and
Manufacturer Lot.
If you clear Core Return, Bin is populated with the Default Bin. If the Default Bin
overwrites a different bin, Lot, Expiration Date, and Manufacturer Lot are cleared.
If the part is tracked by asset and you clear Core Return, Asset ID and Serial Number
are also cleared.
Transaction Qty. UOM is automatically populated.
If you submit a return transaction for a core tracked part with Core Return
unselected, the return is processed as a normal return.
Bin - Specify the bin to which to return the part.
Return Condition - Specify the return part condition.
Lot - Specify the lot to which to return the part. Bin and Lot are automatically populated
with the bin and lot numbers associated with the original issue transaction for the part.
You can change the bin location and lot number as necessary, and then click Add to
List.
Transaction Qty. - Specify the number of parts to return. Transaction Qty. is
automatically populated with the original issue quantity of the part. If you have already
returned a partial quantity of the part from the original issue, Transaction Qty. is
populated with the original quantity of the part issued minus the quantity for the part that
has already been returned.
Transaction Qty. can be limited based on the setting of the RTNANY

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

432 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

installation parameter. If RTNANY is set to YES, you can return any quantity of any
parts to any store for which there is a part record on the Stores tab of the Parts form
(the system requires that a part record exists for the part in the store, not that a binstock record exists for the part in the store). If RTNANY is set to NO, you can only return
the quantity of the part that was originally issued to that entity to the same store. When
issuing a part, you issue to an entity (work order, equipment, etc.) from a store. When
returning a part, you return from an entity (work order, equipment, etc.) to a store.
If you select a work order on the header, only the parts that were previously issued to
the work order in the Part lookup are displayed. When you select a part, the
Transaction Qty. is automatically calculated based on the difference of the quantity of
the parts issued and the quantity of the part that has already been returned.
Print Qty. - Specify the quantity of the label(s) to print for the part to receive.
The system automatically sets the Print Qty. based on the setting of Label
Printing Default on the Stores tab of the Parts form:

Option

Description

If set to No Labels

Print Qty. is null.

If set to Single Labels

Print Qty. is set to 1.

If set to Label for Each Item

Print Qty. is equal to the Receipt Qty., but you can
modify the Print Qty. as necessary. Updating Print
Qty. does not affect the Receipt Qty.

5. Click Add to List. The record is added to the Transaction Details list.
The Transaction Details list acts as a buffer to temporarily store the parts to
return without actually returning them until the transaction is submitted. You can
add/remove parts for the return as necessary before submitting the transaction and
saving the information to the database. Click Add Part to add additional parts to the
return. To remove a part from the Transaction Details list, select the part to remove from
the return, and then click Remove from List.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

433 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Additionally, you can also update information in the Issue To/Return From and/or Issue
From/Return To sections for the transaction as necessary before adding records to the
Transaction Details list.
6. Click Submit Transaction. The part(s) are returned and a stock transaction of type I is
created for the return store with a positive quantity for the return.
When you submit a return transaction for a core tracked part with Core Return
selected, the transaction quantity is added to the repair quantity of the part held in bin
stock. The returned parts are added to Core Qty. on the Repair Details tab of the Parts
form rather than Qty. on Hand on the Stores tab of the Parts form.
If the part is core tracked and is also tracked by asset, the asset status is changed to To
Be Repaired, and the status of all dependent children and grandchildren of the asset
are also updated if the part tracked by asset is the parent in an asset hierarchy.
If the returned part is a LIFO/FIFO part, the price for the return is determined
based on the original issue transaction. LIFO/FIFO pricing does not assign a LIFO/FIFO
price to a core tracked part returned for repair. The transaction price for the return will
be the Core Value of the part.
To print labels for the return transaction, click Print Warranty Return Label(s).
If you are creating a return for a multiple equipment work order and the RTNANY
installation parameter is set to NO and All Equipment is selected for Equipment, you
can only return a part that was previously issued and for which there is a sufficient
quantity issued to the equipment.

Returning parts from multiple equipment work orders
Return unused parts from multiple equipment work orders.
To return parts from multiple equipment work orders:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Issue/Return Parts.
2. Specify this information:
Store - Specify the store to which to return the part(s). If a default store is defined for
the current user, the system automatically populates Store with the user’s default store.
The system automatically populates Date with the current system date and Transaction

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

434 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Type with Issue to enable issue functionality.
Transaction Type - Select Return to enable return functionality.
WO-Activity - Specify the multiple equipment work order/activity to which to return the
part. The system automatically populates Equipment with All Equipment. The system
also populates Related Work Order, Cost Code, and Department from the work
order/activity. Equipment is required and Related Work Order is protected.
If the selected multiple equipment WO-Activity is associated with a project/budget, then
the system automatically populates Project–Budget, and it is protected.
If the selected WO-Activity is associated with a pick ticket, the system automatically
populates Pick Ticket from the associated WO-Activity or Equipment record.
The system does not display work orders in the WO-Activity lookup for which
the value specified for the RTNDAYS installation parameter has been exceeded.
Equipment - Choose one of these options if the work order is a multiple equipment
work order:
• Specify a specific equipment to which to distribute the Transaction Qty.
• Specify All Equipment to evenly distribute the Transaction Qty. to each
equipment record on the work order.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to distribute the Transaction Qty. to the
equipment on the work order header only.
The system automatically applies any remainder of the return quantity to
the last equipment record on the Equipment page of the Work Orders form.
If you select All Equipment and at least one of the related work orders has a
Completed status (or equivalent user status), the system displays a message
enabling you to select whether to distribute the cost of the return against only open
related work orders or against all equipment, regardless of whether the related
work orders are Open or Completed (or their user-status equivalents).
Reference Number - Specify a reference number for the return.
Material List - Specify the material list from which to return.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

435 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Pick Ticket - Specify the pick ticket if a pick ticket is associated with the WOActivity and Equipment. Because the WO-Activity is a multiple equipment work
order, the system automatically selects WO Header Equipment for Equipment. If
the PICKONCE installation parameter is set to YES, then the system does not
display the associated pick ticket in the Pick Ticket lookup. If PICKONCE
installation parameter is set to NO, the system enables you to select the
associated pick ticket from the Pick Ticket lookup. However, once you select a
value for Pick Ticket, the system only displays parts issued for the pick ticket in
the Part lookup, and you can only return the parts issued from the pick ticket.
Department - Specify the department to which to return parts.
Date - Modify the date on which to make the return if necessary.
Part - Specify the part to return. The system displays parts in the Part lookup
based on the setting of the RTNANY installation parameter and whether you are
returning to a work order, a piece of equipment, or a project.
Because the selected WO-Activity is a multiple equipment work order,
Equipment is automatically populated with All Equipment, and the system
displays only parts issued to the work order header or any of the related MEC
work orders in the Part lookup. When you select the part to return, the system
automatically populates Transaction Qty., Bin, and Lot. The Transaction Qty. is
the difference of the total quantity issued to all equipment on the work order and
the quantity already returned from all equipment on the work order. You can
modify the Transaction Qty., Bin, and Lot as necessary and add additional
equipment to the Parts list.
If the part to return is tracked by asset, the system automatically selects Track By
Asset, specifies 1 as the Transaction Qty., and you must specify a value for
Asset ID for the part. The system populates Available Qty. with the total quantity
of the part that is currently available.
The system automatically populates Transaction Qty. UOM.
You cannot specify a Transaction Qty. greater than 1 when returning
parts tracked by asset. If you want to return multiple quantities of a part tracked by
asset, you must add the part tracked by asset to the Transaction Details list on
individual lines with a Transaction Qty.of 1 until you have reached the number of
the part tracked by asset that you wish to return for the transaction.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

436 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

When returning parts to a multiple equipment work order for which All Equipment
is selected, parts tracked by asset are not available for return, and the system
splits the Transaction Qty. equally among all the related work orders.
If you submit a return transaction for a repairable spare part with Return for
Repair unselected, the system processes the return as a normal return.
If the Part is designated as a Tool, then Tool Hours is enabled.
Bin - Modify the bin to which to return the part if necessary.
Lot - Modify the lot to which to return the part if necessary. The system
automatically populates Bin and Lot with the bin and lot numbers associated with
the original issue transaction for the part.
Transaction Qty. - Specify the number of parts to return.
Transaction Qty. is automatically populated with the original issue quantity of the
part. If you have already returned a partial quantity of the part from the original
issue, Transaction Qty. is populated with the original quantity of the part issued
minus the quantity of the part that has already been returned.
Transaction Qty. can be limited based on the setting of the RTNANY
installation parameter. For returns from multiple equipment work orders, if
RTNANY installation parameter is set to Yes and All Equipment is selected for
Equipment, then the system evenly distributes the return quantity to all equipment
records on the work order.
If RTNANY installation parameter is set to No and All Equipment is selected for
Equipment, you can only return a part that was previously issued and for which
there is a sufficient quantity issued to the equipment.
Tool Hours - If the part you are returning is identified as a tool, specify the number
of hours the tool was in use. The system applies the Tool Hours to the equipment
on the multiple equipment work order based on the value specified for
Equipment.
Print Qty. - Specify the quantity of the label(s) to print for the part to receive.
The system automatically sets the Print Qty. based on the setting of
Label Printing Default on the Stores tab of the Parts form:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

437 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Option

Description

If set to No Labels

Print Qty. is null.

If set to Single Labels

Print Qty. is set to 1.

If set to Label for Each Item

Print Qty. is equal to the Receipt Qty., but you
can modify the Print Qty. as necessary. Updating
Print Qty. does not affect the Receipt Qty.

3. Click Add to List.
The Transaction Details list acts as a buffer to temporarily store the parts to
return without actually returning them until the transaction is submitted. You can
add/remove parts for the return before submitting the transaction and saving the
information to the database. Click Add Part to add additional parts to the return.
To remove a part, select the part to remove, and then click Remove from List.
Additionally, you can also update information in the Issue To / Return From and/or Issue
From / Return To sections for the transaction as necessary before adding records to the
Transaction Details list.
4. Click Submit Transaction. The part(s) are returned, and a stock transaction of type I is
created for the return store with a positive quantity for the return.

Issuing parts from a stock record of a part
Issue parts from a stock record of a part on the Stock page of the Parts form using the Issue
Part popup.
If you have selected FIFO or LIFO as your pricing method, the system calculates the
transaction price of issues using the R5FIFO table, rather than retrieving the base price from
the R5PARTS or R5STOCK table.
To issue parts from a stock record of a part:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

438 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part to issue, and then click the Stock tab.
3. Select the store, bin, and lot from which to issue the part, and then click Issue Part.
If the part selected to issue is a core tracked part and the RRISSWAR
installation parameter is set to Yes, the system displays a message indicating that the
part is a core tracked part and that a part may also need to be returned for repair.
4. Specify this information:
Work-Order Activity, Project-Budget, Equipment, and Job - Specify the work
order/activity, project-budget, equipment, or job against which to issue parts.
You must select a valid combination for Work Order–Activity/Equipment or
for Work Order–Activity/Project–Budget to submit the issue. You can also select to
make the issue to an individual piece of Equipment or an individual Project–Budget.
Department - Specify the department from which to issue parts.
Issue To - Specify the code of the employee for which to make the issue.
Issue Qty. - Specify the number of parts to issue.
If the part to issue is tracked by asset, the system automatically populates Issue Qty.
with 1 and it is protected. You must specify the asset by which the part is tracked for
Asset ID. You cannot modify the Issue Qty. when issuing a part tracked by asset from a
stock record.
5. Click Submit.

Returning parts from a stock record of a part
Return parts from a stock record of a part on the Stock page of the Parts form using the
Return Part popup.
If you have selected FIFO or LIFO as your pricing method, the system calculates the
transaction price of returns using the R5FIFO table, rather than retrieving the base price from
the R5PARTS or R5STOCK table.
To return parts from a stock record of a part:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

439 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part to return, and then click the Stock tab.
3. Select the store, bin, and lot to which to return the part, and then click Return Part.
4. Specify this information:
Return Condition - Specify the condition of the part you are returning.
Work Order-Activity, Project-Budget, Equipment, Job - Specify the work
order/activity, project/budget, equipment, or job against which to return parts.
You must select a valid combination for Work Order-Activity/Equipment or for
Work
Order-Activity/Project-Budget to submit the return; or you can select to make the
return to an individual piece of Equipment or an individual Project-Budget.
Department - Specify the department to which to return parts.
Return Qty. - Specify the number of parts to return. If the part to return is tracked by
asset, the system automatically populates the Return Qty. with 1 and it is protected.
You must specify the asset by which the part is tracked for Asset ID. You cannot modify
the Return Qty. when returning a part tracked by asset from a stock record.
5. Click Submit.

Returning parts to a supplier
Return damaged or incorrect parts to a supplier.
Before you can return parts, receive them using the PO Receipts form and assign
them a status of Approved/Complete.
The system does not allow you to return goods received via the Non-PO Receipts form
because you have no purchase order number or requisition as a reference. To return such
items, you need to make an arrangement between your company and your supplier.
Once satisfied with the contents of the return, change the Status on the Record View page
of the return to Ready for Printing and then Approved. You must save the record after each
change of status to commit the status change. The system does not update the inventory

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

440 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

records until the return has been approved.

Step 1: Create a supplier return header
To create a supplier return header:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Supplier Returns.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the supplier return belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Supplier Return - Specify a description of the supplier return in the adjacent field. A
supplier return number is assigned after you save the record.
Purchase Order - Specify the purchase order number of the return.
Return From - Choose on these options:

Option

Description

Store

Select to return the parts from a store. Store is
selected by default.
If you are returning parts from a store, then
all received part lines are available for return. If a part
is related to a purchase order line asso- ciated with a
multiple equipment work order, then the system
populates Equipment, Equipment Org., and
Related Work Order, and they are protected.

Work Order

Select to return the parts from a work order. If you
choose Work Order, the system removes Store and
displays Work Order.
If you are returning parts from a work order

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

441 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and the work order is a multiple equipment work
order, then the system automatically populates the
return with all of the part lines from the purchase
order that were received directly to the work order.

Store - If you selected Store for Return From, update the store from which to return the
materials if necessary. If you update Store, the system clears Purchase Order.
Work Order - If you selected Work Order for Return From, specify the work order from
which to return materials.
If the selected Work Order is a multiple equipment work order, the system
populates Equipment, Equipment Org., and Related Work Order from the Purchase
Order line. If the work order is not a multiple equipment work order, then the system
populates Equipment and Equipment Org. from the work order.
The system does not display MEC work orders in the Work Order lookup.
Also, the system does not allow you to specify the manner in which the return is
distributed to the work order equipment. The system determines the cost distribution
method for the work order costs based on the value specified for Equipment on the
purchase order line.
Class - Specify the class of the return. The classes shown belong to the TRAN entity.
4. Click Save Record.

Step 2: Add parts to a supplier return
To add parts to a supplier return:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Supplier Returns.
2. Select the supplier return for which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Retrieve Parts. The system populates the Parts list with part lines that have been
received against the purchase order specified on the Record View page.
You can also click Add Part to add a single part to the supplier return rather
than retrieving all the lines that have been received to a purchase order. Adding a single

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

442 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

part to a supplier return is helpful in return situations for which you may have had a
purchase order with a large number of items against which you only need to return a
few parts.
For externally repaired parts to be returned from a purchase order and store, the system
retrieves part lines received against the purchase order and store on the header.
Available Qty. is calculated as the number of parts received for this purchase order that
are in the selected store and are not for repair. If the part is also tracked by asset, the
system only retrieves the part that match the specified Asset ID. If the part was
scrapped at the time at which it was received, the part cannot be returned.
For parts to be returned from a work order, the system retrieves only direct material
parts that have been received directly to the work order against the purchase order on
the header.
4. Select the part to be returned from the Parts list. The system populates the part
information in the Part Details section. The system automatically populates Return Qty.
with the quantity of the part received against the purchase order and available in a
specific bin and lot for return, Order Qty. with the original quantity of the part ordered,
Available Qty. with the number of parts in stock in a specific bin and lot, and Price with
the price at which the part was received. The system selects Direct if the part has been
received to a work order and Track by Asset if the part is tracked by asset.
5. Specify this information:
Return Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part to be returned.
If you are returning a part tracked by asset, the system displays the part in the
Parts list in quantities of one. For example, you received five motors that are tracked by
asset, so the system displays the motor on five separate lines. The system
automatically populates Return Qty. with one if you are returning a part tracked by
asset, and the system also protects the field from update.
Bin - Specify the bin to which to return the part.
Lot - Specify the lot to which to return the part.
Reason for Return - Specify the reason for returning the part.
Asset ID - Specify the asset ID for the part tracked by asset. If the selected part is
tracked by asset, the system automatically populates Bin, Lot, Department, Asset

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

443 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Type, Asset Org., and Serial Number from the equipment record.
6. Click Submit.
To remove a part, select the part to remove, and then click Remove Part.

Defining part condition templates
Define part condition templates when your organization reuses parts and needs to track the
parts by their condition. Part condition templates define which conditions you can use to track
parts. You can track parts throughout their life cycle. For example, the part condition can be
new, used, rebuilt less than five times, or rebuilt more than five times.
When creating parts, Tracked by Condition must be selected. When a part is tracked by
condition, the system creates a child record for each condition that is added to the part
condition template.
To define part condition templates:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Part Condition Templates.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Part Condition Template - Specify a unique code identifying the part condition
template, and then enter a description in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization of the part condition template.
Suffix Separator - Specify a unique suffix separator code for the part condition
template. The suffix separator is used in the child part code. For example, if the parent
part code is TIMBEAR12, the suffix separator is a dash (-), and the condition suffix code
is an A, the child part code would be TIMBEAR12-A.
Out of Service - Select this check box if you do not want the part condition template to
appear in the lookups.
4. Click Save Record.

Adding conditions to part condition templates

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

444 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Add conditions after defining part condition template details. Multiple conditions can be added
to part condition templates.
To add conditions to part condition templates:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Part Condition Templates.
2. Select the part condition template for which to add conditions, and then click the
Conditions tab.
3. Click Add Condition.
4. Specify this information:
Condition - Specify a unique code identifying the condition, and then enter a
description in the adjacent field.
Suffix Code - Specify a unique suffix code for the condition. The suffix code is used in
the child part code. For example, if the parent part code is BEARINGAXL, the suffix
separator is a dash (-), and the condition suffix code is an A, the child part code would
be BEARINGAXL-A.
5. Specify the Return to Store Condition List, Return to Store Condition Default, Core
Return Condition List, Core Return Condition Default, Receive Repairs Condition
List, and Receive Repairs Condition Default.
6. Select the Prevent Reorders check box to prevent the part from being reordered
7. Select the Prevent Issues check box to prevent the part from being issued.
8. Click Submit.

Changing conditions for parts
Modify conditions for parts when it is determined that the part condition in the system does
not match the actual physical condition of the part. For example, use the Change Part
Condition popup if the actual physical condition of the part on hand is poor or fair, but the
condition in the system is good.
To change conditions for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

445 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the part for which to change the condition, and then click the Stock tab.
3. Select the stock record for which to change the condition, and then click Change Part
Condition. The system automatically populates Part, Part Org., Condition, Qty. on
Hand, and Asset ID.
4. Specify this information:
New Condition - Specify the new condition for the part.
Change Qty. - Specify the number of parts the change will affect.
When changing the condition for Tracked by Asset parts, the system will
automatically update Change Qty. to 1. The only valid change quantity is 1.
5. Click Submit.

Creating greenhouse gas records
Create greenhouse gas records to establish and monitor the relationship between
greenhouse gas emissions and its carbon dioxide equivalent.
To create greenhouse gas records:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Greenhouse Gases.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Greenhouse Gas - Specify a unique code identifying the greenhouse gas, and then
enter a description of the greenhouse gas in the adjacent field.
CO2e Ratio - Specify a ratio by which to calculate the carbon dioxide equivalency
relationship to the greenhouse gas.
Out of Service - Select to mark the greenhouse gas as out of service.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining greenhouse gas emissions for parts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

446 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parts emit certain greenhouse gases into the atmosphere through leakage. Specify and
record greenhouse gases and the emission amount emitted by parts.
To define greenhouse gas emissions for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to define greenhouse gas emissions, and then click the
Greenhouse Gas tab.
3. Click Add Greenhouse Gas Emitted.
4. Specify this information:
Greenhouse Gas Emitted - Specify the greenhouse gas the part emits. The system
automatically populates the Description of the greenhouse gas emitted.
Emission Amount - Specify the amount of greenhouse gas the part emits. The system
automatically populates the UOM of the emission amount, CO2e Amount, and CO2e
Ratio.
5. Click Submit.
To delete a greenhouse gas emissions record, select the greenhouse gas
emitted, and then click Delete Greenhouse Gas Emitted.

Defining kit template parts
Define a combination of parts and quantities of those parts to create a kit.
To define kit templates:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part kit for which the kit template will be defined, and then click the Kit
Template tab.
Part must be Track as Kit on the Parts form to add to the kit template.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

447 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Part - Specify the part to add to the kit. The system automatically populates
Organization and the part description.
Quantity - Specify the quantity of the part to add to the kit. When a kit is built from this
template, the system will require this quantity of the part specified to build the kit. The
system automatically populates the quantity UOM.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Notes - Specify any notes regarding the part or kit.
5. Click Submit.

Building kits
Build a kit from a stock of parts within a store using a pre-defined kit template.
To build a parts kit:
1. Select Materials > Kits > Build Kit.
2. Specify this information:
Store - Specify the store from which to pull the parts and build the kit. The system
automatically populates the store description in the adjacent field.
Session ID - Specify the session ID if this was a previously saved session.
Kit Part - Specify the part that identifies the kit to be built. The system automatically
populates the kit part description, kit part organization, Condition, and Max Kits
Available based on the parts required and the availability of stock in all bins in the store.
This part must be designated as a kit part on the Parts form.
Kit Lot Description - Specify a description of the kit lot where the part is stored. The
system automatically populates Kit Lot Description based on the value of Organization
Option KITLDESC, if defined.
Kit Bin - Specify the bin into which to the newly built kit will be stored.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

448 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Number of Kits to Build - Specify the number of kits to build.
If any of the parts defined in the kit template are Track by Asset parts, Number
of Kits to Build must be set to 1.
Kit Lot Expiration Date - Specify the expiration date of the kit lot.
3. Click Retrieve Parts. The system creates a Session ID if this is a new session. The
system populates the Parts list with relevant parts.
4. Specify this information:
Pulled - Select to pull parts to satisfy quantity required to build the kit.
The system defaults the value of Pulled to selected or unselected based on the
value in the Organization Option KITPPULD.
Part Bin - Specify the bin that contains the part. The part will be pulled from this bin.
Click F9 to invoke the BIN list of values.
Part Lot - Specify the lot that contains the part from which to pull the part.
Click F9 to invoke the LOT list of values.
Asset ID - Specify the asset ID if the part is Track as Asset.
Click F9 to invoke the Asset list of values.
Issue Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part to issue to build the kit.
5. Click Build Kit. The system assigns a unique kit lot number.

Breaking up kits
Return parts allocated to a kit. Once the parts or kit is received, inspect the component parts
and return the kit to stock or return the parts to stock and/or repair and account for usage.
To break up kits:
1. Select Materials > Kits > Breakup Kit.
2. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

449 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Store - Specify the store to which to return the kit part to stock.
Kit Part - Specify the kit part to be broken up.
Kit Lot - Specify the specific kit to which to return the kit part.
Work Order - Activity - Specify the work order and activity to which the kit lot was last
issued.
Job - Specify the job to which the kit lot was last issued.
Default Full Qty. to Qty. to Store - Select to default the full quantity of parts retrieved to
the quantity to issue back to the store (Qty. to Store).
Default Full Qty. to Qty. Used - Select to default the full quantity of parts retrieved to
the quantity used or consumed (Qty. Used).
3. Click Retrieve Parts.
4. Select the part, and then specify this information:
Qty. Used - Specify the quantity of the part consumed.
Qty. to Store - Specify the quantity of the part to reissue to the store.
Store Bin - Specify the store bin to which to return the part.
Click F9 to invoke the Bin list of values.
Qty. to Repair - Specify the quantity of the part to be repaired.
Repair Bin - Specify the repair bin to which to return the parts for repair.
Click F9 to invoke the Repair Bin list of values.
5. Click Breakup Kit. The system dismantles the kit and returns the parts to inventory into
the designated areas. A transaction line of type Issue is created for each parts line. The
system deletes the kit lot.
6. Click Print Restock List to print a list of parts retrieved and returned after the kit was
broken up.

Creating store groups

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

450 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

A store group is a group of stores that share the same transfer fees. Create store groups to
determine if transfer fees apply for transferring parts between stores in situations where
shipping fees may or may not apply.
To create store groups:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Store Groups.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Store Group - Specify a unique name identifying the store group, and then enter a
description in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class to which the store group belongs. The system automatically
populates Class Org.
Out of Service - Select to indicate the store group is no longer in service.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining transfer fees for store groups
Define the percentage to charge for a part transfer between two stores. The transfer fee is
accessed when a part is transferred using the Store-to-Store Issues, Store-to-Store Receipts,
and Quick Store-to Store-Transfer forms.
The fee is a percentage of the base price of the part. For example, for a part with a base price
of $100 and a % of Base Price of 10 (%), the system accesses a $10 transfer fee to transfer
the part between stores.
You may enter a transfer fee for stores that belong to the same store group.
To define transfer fees for store groups:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Store Groups.
2. Select the store group for which to define transfer fees, and then click the Transfer
Fees tab.
3. Click Add Transfer Fee. The system automatically populates From Store Group.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

451 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
To Store Group - Specify the store group to which to transfer the part.
Transaction Class - Specify the class of the transaction. The system automatically
populates Transaction Class Org.
% of Base Price - Specify the charge percentage.
5. Click Submit.
To delete a transfer fee, select the transfer fee to delete, and then click Delete
Transfer Fee.

Creating store-to-store requisitions
Create store-to-store requisitions to transfer stock parts from one store to another, including
stores within different organizations. A store-to-store requisition consists of the requisition
header and requisition lines. Create the requisition header first, and then add part lines.
A typical store-to-store requisition goes through a number of status changes during the
lifecycle of the requisition. User status change authorizations are established on the Status
Authorizations form. See the following list for a description of store-to-store requisition
statuses:

Option

Description

Unfinished

The status of the store-to-store requisition at creation.
The status of the store-to-store requisition header must
remain Unfinished until lines are added to the requisition.

Request Approval

Lines have been added to the store-to-store requisition,
and it is ready for approval.

Approved

The store-to-store requisition is approved and ready for
fulfillment. Upon approval, all fields on the store-to-store
requisition are protected, except Status, and all of the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

452 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

lines that are not Canceled or Rejected are set to
Approved.
You cannot approve a requisition if any store- tostore issues have been made against the requisition and
the parts are still in-transit (issued but not yet received).

Canceled

The entire store-to-store requisition is canceled.

Rejected

The store-to-store requisition is rejected. The system
protects all fields on the requisition, and you must enter a
Reject Reason for the requisition.

You can also change the status of individual store-to-store requisition lines.

Creating store-to-store requisition headers
Create store-to-store requisition headers to specify information related to the entire
requisition.
The status of the requisition header indicates the progress of the requisition through its cycle.
You may change the status of the requisition based on your status authorization and
requisition approval limits. You can only delete requisitions with a status of Unfinished.
Requisition approval limits can be set at the header or the line level depending on the
setting of the LIMITLEV installation parameter.
The system enforces several business rules that prohibit changing the status of a requisition
header from Unfinished to any status other than Cancelled before adding any lines to the
requisition. Additionally, the system enables or protects certain fields based on the requisition
status. The system also populates fields on the requisition header with values from the
requisition lines.
The system assigns a requisition number.
To create store-to-store requisition headers:
1. Select Materials > Store-to-Store Requisitions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

453 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
To Organization - Specify the organization to which to send the parts on the store-tostore requisition. The organization you enter must be a specific organization to which
you belong.
Requisition - Specify a description of the requisition in the adjacent field. The system
automatically enters a default requisition description based on the setting of the
REQDESC installation parameter. The system assigns a requisition number after you
save the record.
Status - Select the status of the requisition.
From Store - Specify the store from which to issue the materials on the requisition.
To Store - Specify the store to which to issue the materials on the requisition.
Requested By - Specify the employee requesting the items on the requisition.
The system automatically populates Entered By with the login ID of the user
entering the requisition. If the user assigned for Entered By has a corresponding
employee record, the system will automatically populates Requested By with the
employee code of the user.
Delivery Address - Specify the address to which to deliver the items.
Class - Specify the class of the requisition. The classes shown belong to the REQ
entity.
The system automatically populates Date Requested with the system date.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code with which to associate the cost of the requisition.
Reject Reason - Specify an explanation of the reason that the requisition is being
rejected if necessary. Reject Reason is protected when the status of the requisition is
Unfinished or Cancelled. However, the system enables Reject Reason and it becomes
required if you change the status of the requisition to Rejected.
The system automatically selects Printed when this requisition is printed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

454 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Default Approver - Specify the name of the person who will approve the requisition.
The system automatically populates Approved By with the employee code
identifying the person who approves the requisition and Date Approved with the system
date when the requisition Status is Approved. The system displays the total number of
the lines containing parts on the requisition in Requisition Lines and populates Total
Req. Value with the total cost of the items on the requisition in the default currency of
the Organization.
4. Click Save Record.

Adding parts to store-to-store requisitions
Add the requested parts to the requisition after creating the requisition header.
You may change the status of the requisition line based on your status authorization and
requisition approval limits. You can only delete a requisition line if the status of the requisition
header is Unfinished.
Requisition approval limits can be set at the header or the line level depending on the
setting of the LIMITLEV installation parameter.
The system enforces several business rules that prohibit changing the status of a requisition
header from Unfinished to any other status but canceled before adding any lines to the
requisition. However, if the status of the requisition header is set to canceled, all the lines on
the requisition are also canceled. The system enables or protects certain fields based on the
requisition status. The system also populates fields on the requisition header with certain
values from the requisition lines.
To add parts to store-to-store requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Store-to-Store Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition to which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab. The system
automatically populates Requested Before with the current system date. The system
automatically populates Delivery Address and Cost Code from the requisition header.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

455 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Part - Specify the part to add to the requisition. The system automatically populates the
part description, Part Org., Price, UOM, Buyer, Commodity, Tax Code, and Expense
Type.
The system populates Line with the next incremental line number of the part on the
requisition. If the part is tracked by asset, the system automatically selects Track by
Asset.
If the Part is a core tracked part, the system enables Core Qty. You can either enter a
value for Quantity or Core Qty., but not both. When you enter a value for either
Quantity or Core Qty., the system protects the other field. The system populates Price
with the Core Value of the part (not the Repair Price). The origin of the Core Value
price is determined by the setting of the PRICELEV installation parameter.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Line - Specify the line number for the part on the requisition line. The system
automatically assigns the next incremental number to the line based on the setting of
the INCRLINO installation parameter.
Status - Specify the status of the requisition line.

• You can update the status of a requisition line at any time unless the status of the
header is set to Rejected or Canceled.
• If the requisition contains more than one line, changing the status of a line does
not affect the status of the header. However, if the requisition contains only one
line, and you change the status of the line, then the system sets the status of the
header to the status of the line.
• You cannot update any field on the requisition line other than Status if the status
of the line is anything other than Unfinished.
Quantity - Specify the requested quantity of the part.
Requested Before - Specify the date by which you are requesting to receive the
part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

456 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Exchange Rate - Modify the exchange rate for the part if necessary. The system
automatically populates Exchange Rate with the exchange rate specified on the
Exchange Rate tab of the Currency form.
If the EXRUPDT installation parameter is set to YES and you modify the
exchange rate, the system recalculates the header value based on the updated
exchange rate.
Buyer - Specify the employee code identifying the buyer of the part.
Delivery Address - Specify the address to which to deliver the item.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code with which to associate the cost of the
requisition.

• If applicable, the system automatically populates Tax Code and Receipt Qty. for
the part. The system populates Price with the base price of the part in the From
Store.
• If no Cost Code is selected for the line and a Cost Code is either added or
updated on the header, then the system updates the Cost Code on the line with
the Cost Code of the header. Updating the Cost Code on a requisition line does
not affect the header.
Expense Type - Select the expense type for the requisitioned line.
Commodity - Specify the commodity code for the requisitioned line.
The system displays the total cost of the item on the requisition in Part
Line Total. The Part Line Total is the product of the Requested Qty. and the Price.
Core Qty. is protected unless the selected part is a core tracked part to be issued
for repair or reconditioning. If the part is core tracked, you can select and clear
Core Qty. as necessary. If Core Qty. is selected, the Price of the part is the Core
Value of the part on the part record rather than the Base Price.
5. Click Submit.

Creating store-to-store issues

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

457 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create store-to-store issues to create electronic records of the issue of stock part transfers
from one store to another, including stores within different organizations. You can create a
store-to-store requisition before creating a store-to-store issue.
The Store-to-Store Issues form enables you to create and manage transactions to transfer
parts such as stock parts, repairable spare parts, and parts tracked by asset between stores,
including stores within different organizations.
You can create multiple issues for the same store-to-store requisition as necessary.
After creating and approving the store-to-store issue transaction, the issuing store then
physically issues the requested parts to the receiving store, in which the parts must be
received.
The Store-to-Store Receipts form enables you to create and manage transactions
to receive parts, repairable spare parts, and parts tracked by asset from other stores,
including stores within different organizations.

Creating store-to-store issue headers
Create store-to-store issue headers to specify information related to the entire issue
transaction. The status of the issue header indicates the progress of the issue transaction
through its cycle.
The system assigns a store-to-store issue number. To create a store-to-store issue header:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Store-to-Store Issues.
2. Click New Record. The system automatically populates Date Issued with the current
system date and time.
3. Specify this information:
From Organization - Specify the organization from which to send the parts for the
issue. The organization you enter must be a specific organization to which you belong.
Store-to-Store Issue - Specify a description of the store-to-store issue in the adjacent
field. The system automatically enters a default store-to-store issue description based
on the setting of the TRANDESC installation parameter. The system also assigns a
store-to-store issue number after you save the record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

458 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Status - Select the status of the issue. The system automatically assigns a Status of
Unfinished.
Changing the status of a store-to-store issue may affect additional system checks and
field changes in these ways:

Option

Description

Unfinished

While the store-to-store issue has an Unfinished
status, most of the fields on the header are editable.
However, when you save the issue with Unfinished
status, the system protects the From Organization
and From Store. The issue must maintain Unfinished
status until lines are added to the issue on the Parts
tab.

Canceled

Change the status of the issue to Canceled to cancel
the issue and all of the part lines. The system
protects all fields on the issue when you change the
status to Canceled.

Ready for Printing

Change the status of the issue to Ready for Printing
after adding the parts to issue on the Parts tab.
When the status of the issue is Ready for Printing,
only Status, Description, Class, and Reference
Number are editable.

Approved

The system populates Approved By and Date
Issued with the User ID of the approver and the date
and time that the store-to-store issue Status is set to
Approved, moves parts in-transit, and changes the
status of any asset(s).

Requisition - Specify the store-to-store requisition for which to issue the parts. If you

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

459 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

select a Requisition, the system automatically populates From Store, To Store, and
To Organization.
From Store - Specify the store from which to issue the part.
To Store - Specify the store to which to issue the part. The system automatically
populates To Organization.
Reference Number - Specify a reference number for the store-to-store issue
transaction.
Class - Specify the class of the requisition. The classes shown belong to the TRAN
entity.
4. Click Save Record.

Adding parts to store-to-store issues
Add parts to store-to-store issues to designate the parts to issue from one store to another.
To add parts to store-to-store issues:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Store-to-Store Issues.
2. Select the issue to which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add to the store-to-store issue. The system automatically
populates the part description, Part Org., and Track by Asset. The system populates
On Hand Qty. with the quantity of the part from the From Bin and Lot.
If the selected Part is core tracked, the system calculates Core Qty. as the quantity of
parts that are designated for repair in From Store on the issue header, From Bin, and
Lot minus any parts that are allocated to repair work orders and parts assigned to
external repair requisitions.

• If you entered a Requisition on the store-to-store issue header, you can click

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

460 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Retrieve Parts to retrieve all the part lines from the selected Requisition.
• If you attempt to retrieve all the part lines from a requisition and the specified
Issue Qty. is greater than the On Hand Qty., or if the Issue Core Qty. is greater
than the Core Qty., the system sets the Issue Qty. equal to the available On
Hand Qty. or sets the Issue Core Qty. equal to the available Core Qty. If there
are no parts or core tracked parts to issue, the system does not add the line from
the requisition.
• If you have already issued some parts for a requisition but you have not added the
complete quantity of the parts requested, click Retrieve Parts to create a new line
for the remaining quantity of the parts to issue from the selected Requisition.
• The system populates Price and Currency with the Base Price of the selected
Part in the From Store. The Base Price in the From Store is determined by the
setting of the PRICETYP and PRICELEV installation parameters. The system
populates the currency of the price in the adjacent field with the Currency.
• If the part is a core tracked part, the transaction price for the core tracked part is
the Core Value of the part, rather than the price of a new part.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If
the selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically
populate Condition.
Line - Specify the line number for the part on the issue. The system automatically
assigns the next incremental number to the line based on the setting of the
INCRLINO installation parameter.
Issue Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part(s) to issue.
If you selected a Requisition on the store-to-store issue header, the
system populates Issue Qty. with the Quantity of the part from the store-to-store
requisition minus any of the quantity of the part that has been received, scrapped,
and any parts that are currently in-transit or that are on an unfinished store-tostore issue for the selected Requisition and Part.
Issue Core Qty. - Specify the quantity of the for repair part(s) to issue.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

461 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• If the selected Part is core tracked, the system enables Issue Core Qty. and
populates Core Qty. with the quantity of the parts available to be issued for repair.
• You cannot issue parts that have already been assigned to work orders or external
repair requisitions, even if the parts have not yet been moved to the Qty. at Shop
or Qty. at Supplier. Also, you cannot issue parts that are on any Unfinished storeto-store issues (including the current issue).
From Bin - Modify the bin from which to issue the part if necessary. If you modify
From Bin, the system removes the part.

• If you clear From Bin, the system also clears Lot and recalculates On Hand Qty.
and Core Qty. for the From Store, which is the sum of all the parts in all of the
bins in the From Store.
• When only From Store is entered and From Bin is blank, the system calculates
On Hand Qty. and Core Qty. as the sum of the quantities of the Part in all the
bins in the From Store.
• If you defined a Default Bin or Default Core Bin, the system populates From Bin
with that bin.
• If you select a From Bin, the system updates On Hand Qty. and Core Qty. for the
Store and From Bin. Likewise, if you select a Lot, the system updates On Hand
Qty. and Core Qty. for the selected Store, Bin, and Lot combination.
• If a Default Core Bin is defined for the Part in the From Store, and you have not
entered a value for Issue Core Qty., then the system populates From Bin with the
Default Core Bin. If more than one bin-stock record is defined for the Part in the
From Store, the system also populates Lot from the bin-stock record. If the
Default Bin for the part does not have a bin-stock record in the From Store, the
system leaves From Bin blank.
Lot - Specify the lot from which to issue the part if necessary.
The system automatically populates the Manufacturer Lot and Expiration Date.
If you clear Lot, the system recalculates On Hand Qty. and Core Qty. for
all lots in the selected From Bin.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

462 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Asset ID - Specify the code identifying the asset associated with the part to
transfer. If the selected Part is tracked by asset, the system enables Asset ID,
and you must enter an Asset ID for the part.

• If the selected Asset ID has a status of In Store or Purchased/In Store, the system
enters 1 as the issue On Hand Qty.
• If the selected Asset ID has a status of To Be Repaired, the system enters 1 as
the Issue Core Qty. To issue multiples of a by asset part, you must add an
individual line for each part to issue.
• If the selected Asset ID is tracked by serial number, the system populates Serial
Number with the serial number of the equipment. The system also populates the
From Bin and Lot from the Asset ID, and if you clear the From Bin or the Lot,
the system automatically clears the Asset ID.
• You can use the Quick Store-to-Store Transfer form to transfer equipment with
child equipment in an equipment hierarchy within the same organization.
5. Click Submit.
You can add and delete parts on the issue as necessary, as long as the status
of the issue is Unfinished.

Creating store-to-store receipts
Create store-to-store receipts to create electronic records for receiving stock part transfers
from one store to another.
After creating the store-to-store issue transaction, the issuing store then physically issues the
requested parts to the receiving store, in which the parts must be received. The receiving
store then creates a store-to-store receipt transaction to receive the parts from the issuing
store.
The Store-to-Store Receipts form enables you to create and manage transactions to receive
parts (stock parts, repairable spare parts, and parts tracked by asset) from stores, including
stores within different organizations.
You can create multiple receipts for the same store-to-store requisition as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

463 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating store-to-store receipt headers
Create store-to-store receipt headers to specify information related to the entire receipt
transaction. The status of the receipt header indicates the progress of the receipt transaction
through its cycle.
The system assigns a store-to-store receipt number.
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Store-to-Store Receipts.
2. Click New Record. The system automatically populates the Date Received with the
current system date and time.
3. Specify this information:
To Organization - Specify the organization to which to receive the parts. The
organization you select must be a specific organization to which you belong.
Store-to-Store Receipt - Specify a description of the store-to-store receipt in the
adjacent field. The system automatically enters a default store-to-store receipt
description based on the setting of the TRANDESC installation parameter.
The system also assigns a store-to-store receipt number after you save the record.
Status - Select the status of the receipt.
Changing the status of a store-to-store receipt may affect additional system checks and
field changes in these ways:

Option

Description

Unfinished

While the store-to-store receipt has an Unfinished
status, the fields on the header are editable. The
receipt must maintain Unfinished status until lines are
added to the receipt on the Parts tab.

Canceled

Change the status of the receipt to Canceled to
cancel the receipt and all of the part lines. The
system protects all fields on the receipt when you

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

464 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

change the status to Canceled.

Ready for Printing

Change the status of the receipt to Ready for Printing
after adding the parts to receive on the Parts tab.
When the status of the receipt is Ready for Printing,
only Status, Description, Class, and Reference
Number are editable.

Approved

The system populates Approved By with the User ID
of the approver of the store-to-store receipt when the
status is set to Approved, and all of the fields on the
receipt are protected except Status.

The system also updates store quantities based on the receipt as follows:
• Parts that are not for repair are moved from In Transit Qty. to Qty. on Hand.
• Received parts that are for repair are moved from In Transit Qty. to Core Qty.
• All scrapped parts are moved out of the In Transit Qty., but the parts are not added
back to inventory.
The costs for the receipt transaction are updated for the To Store based on by the
setting of the PRICETYP and PRICELEV installation parameters.
The system does not update the price of repair parts. The price for the
receipt transaction of the repairable spare part is the Core Value of the part.
If the PRICETIM installation parameter is set to I, the system updates prices at the
time an invoice is created rather than at the time of a receipt. However, for a storeto-store receipt, the system updates prices as though PRICETIM is set to R
because invoices do not apply to store-to-store transfers. Therefore, for store-tostore transfers, price updates always take place at the time the store-to-store
receipt is approved.
For parts that are tracked by asset that are being transferred within the same
organization, the system updates the Store on the asset to the new Store in the
receiving organization, and the asset Status is set to In Store. If the by asset part

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

465 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

needs repair, the asset is transferred to the new store with a Status of To Be
Repaired.
For parts tracked by asset that are being transferred between different
organizations, the system makes updates in almost the same manner that it does
when transferring assets between organizations using the Transfer Equipment
popup, with the following exceptions: electronic signatures are only required for
the transfer if a signature is configured for inserting an asset with In Store or To
Be Repaired status; the system copies all of the fields from the existing asset to a
new record for the asset in the new organization, unless they are not valid in the
new organization (in which case, the fields will remain null); and if the Department
is not valid in the new organization, the system populates the Department with an
asterisk (*).
Requisition - Specify the store-to-store requisition for which to receive the parts.
The system automatically populates To Store, From Store, and From
Organization.
If you update the Requisition with a different requisition number, the
system overwrites To Store, From Store, and From Organization with the values
from the new Requisition. Likewise, if you clear the Requisition, the system also
clears To Store, From Store, and From Organization.
To Store - Specify the store to which to receive the materials.
From Store - Specify the store from which to receive the materials. The system
automatically populates the From Organization with the organization of the From
Store.
Reference Number - Specify a reference number for the store-to-store receipt
transaction.
Class - Specify the class of the receipt. The classes shown belong to the TRAN
entity.
4. Click Save Record.
After approving a store-to-store receipt, click Create Return Requisition to
generate a return requisition for issuing parts between stores for repairable spare parts
and their replacement parts more efficiently.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

466 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Adding parts to store-to-store receipts
Add parts to store-to-store receipts to designate the parts to receive from one store to
another.
The Parts page of the Store-to-Store Receipts form enables you to create multiple
lines for the same part on the receipt, but the sum of the quantities of the duplicate parts
cannot be greater than the In Transit Qty. or In Transit Core Qty.
To add parts to store-to-store receipts:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Store-to-Store Receipts.
2. Select the receipt to which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add to the store-to-store receipt. The system automatically
populates the part description, Part Org., and Track by Asset.

• If you entered a Requisition on the store-to-store receipt header, click Retrieve
Parts to retrieve all the part lines from the selected Requisition.
• If you attempt to retrieve all the part lines from a requisition and all the parts have
not been issued, the system sets the Receipt Qty. equal to the available In
Transit Qty. (or the requested Quantity from the requisition, whichever is least) or
sets the Core Receipt Qty. equal to the available In Transit Core Qty. (or the
requested Core Qty. from the requisition, whichever is least). If there are no parts
to receive, the system does not add the line from the requisition.
• If you created a part line for a partial quantity of the parts to receive from a
requisition, clicking Retrieve Parts will create a new line for the remaining quantity
of the parts to receive from the selected Requisition.
• The system populates Price with the price of the part at the time of the issue for
the part.
• If the Part is core tracked, the transaction price for the receipt transaction for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

467 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

core tracked part is the Core Value of the part.
• The system populates the To Bin with the Default Bin from the stock record of the
part on Stores page of the Parts form, or the Default Core Bin from the Repair
Details tab of the Parts form if the part is core tracked.
• The system populates In Transit Qty. with the quantity of the part that is currently
in transit (not for repair) minus any parts that are on any unfinished store-to-store
receipt (including the current receipt).
• If the selected Part is core tracked, the system populates In Transit Core Qty.
with the quantity of the part that is currently in transit for repair minus any parts
that are received, scrapped, or on an unfinished store-to-store receipts (including
the current receipt).
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If
the selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically
populate Condition.
Line - Specify the line number for the part on the issue if necessary. The system
automatically assigns the next incremental number to the line based on the setting
of the INCRLINO installation parameter.
Receipt Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part to receive.
If you selected a Requisition on the store-to-store receipt header, then the
system populates Receipt Qty. with the In Transit Qty. of the part from the storeto-store requisition minus any quantity of the part that is already on any unfinished
store-to-store receipts for the selected Requisition and Part.
Core Receipt Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part to receive for repair.
If the selected Part is core tracked, the system enables Core Receipt
Qty. and populates Core Receipt Qty. with the In Transit Core Qty. for the
selected Requisition and Part.
Scrap Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part to scrap rather than receive because
the part could not be repaired.
If the selected Part is core tracked, the system enables Scrap Qty.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

468 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To Bin - Modify the bin into which to receive the part if necessary.
If you enter Receipt Qty., the system populates the To Bin with the
Default Bin for the part. If the part is core tracked, the system populates the To
Bin with the Default Core Bin for the part.
Lot - Modify the lot for which to receive the part if necessary. The system
automatically populates Manufacturer Lot and Expiration Date.
Department - Specify the department of the asset.
Asset ID - Specify the code identifying the asset associated with the part to
receive. If the selected Part is tracked by asset, and you must enter an Asset ID
for the part.
If the selected Asset ID is in-transit and not for repair, the system enters 1 as the
Receipt Qty. If the selected Asset ID is in-transit and for repair, the system enters
1 as the Core Receipt Qty. To receive multiple quantities of a by asset part, you
must add individual lines for each part to receive.
If the selected Asset ID is tracked by serial number, the system populates Serial
Number with the serial number of the equipment.
5. Click Submit.
You can add and delete parts on the receipt as necessary, as long as the status
of the receipt is Unfinished.

Creating a return requisition for core tracked parts from a storeto-store receipt
Create a return requisition for core tracked parts from a store-to-store receipt to create a
requisition for sending good parts back to the store from which the parts for repair were
received. A return requisition is used when a store needs to immediately send equivalent
parts in good working order to the store from which core tracked parts requiring repair were
received, or when a store requests good parts first and then sends the broken parts for repair.
A return requisition is basically a reverse mirror image of the receipt on which the system will
reverse the Status of the part lines. For example, parts with a Status of For Repair will be
regular parts, or regular parts will become For Repair parts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

469 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

See the following scenario for an illustration of how a return requisition can be used:
STORE1 creates a store-to-store requisition for STORE2 for a quantity of 10 PUMPMOTOR(s) that are for repair, and then STORE1 issues the parts to STORE2. STORE2
receives 8 of the PUMP MOTOR(s), and scraps two of the PUMP MOTOR(s) because they
are beyond repair. STORE2 creates a return requisition, and the system adds lines for 10
PUMP MOTOR(s) that are in good working order. STORE2 then issues the 10 parts to
STORE1. STORE1 can then receive the 10 good PUMP MOTOR(s) against the return
requisition created by STORE2.
This scenario could also be reversed and STORE2 could initiate the store-to-store transfer by
creating a store-to-store requisition for issuing the 10 good PUMP MOTOR(s), in which case
STORE1 could then create a return requisition to send the 10 broken PUMP MOTOR(s) to
STORE2.
To create a return requisition for core tracked parts from a store-to-store receipt:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Store-to-Store Receipts.
2. Select the receipt for which to create a return requisition, and then click the Record
View tab.
3. Click Create Return Requisition. The system populates the following fields on the
return requisition header:

Field

Description

Description

Populated based on the setting of the REQDESC
installation parameter

Status

The system sets the Status of the return requisition to
Unfinished.

Requested By

Populated with the value of Requested By from the
original requisition. However, if the original employee code
is not valid in the organization of the return requisition, the
system populates Requested By with the user who

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

470 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

creates the return requisition.

Entered By

Populated with the user ID of the logged in user

Date Requested

Current system date and time

The system populates the following fields on the requisition lines:

Field

Description

Status

The system sets the Status of the return requisition line to
Unfinished.

Requested Before

Current system date and time

Part

Part from the receipt line

Qty.

Receipt Qty. for regular parts, or the Core Receipt Qty. for
core tracked parts

Core Qty.

Only for core tracked parts and populated with the Receipt
Qty.

Price

Price from the original requisition

Exchange Rate

Exchange Rate from the original requisition

4. To view or update the return requisition, open the Store-to-Store Requisitions form,
select the return requisition, and then view/update the Record View and Parts pages
as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

471 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating internal repair receipts
Create internal repair receipts for fixed or scrapped repairable spare parts to record and
update inventory information associated with repairing parts internally. An internal repair
receipt consists of both a header and lines containing the parts to receive from an internal
repair work order.
When repairing a part internally, a part to repair is taken from a store location to the shop to
be repaired. During the repair process, either complete the repairs on a part, or scrap the part
because you cannot repair the part to a usable state. You must receive the parts back into a
store, which does not have to be the same store from which they were originally taken for
repair.
Create an internal receipt header first, and then add part lines to the receipt. Update the
Status of an internal repair receipt to indicate its progress through the receipt process and to
initiate system actions based on receipt statuses.
For parts tracked by asset, the system automatically changes the Status of the
equipment by which the part is tracked to In Store when the part is received, or it changes the
status to Withdrawn if the part is scrapped. If the equipment by which the part is tracked is
part of an equipment hierarchy, the system cascades the status change for the parent
equipment to all the dependent child equipment in the hierarchy.
If RPPRCCAL is set to YES, the system updates part prices in the same manner as it does a
normal receipt. If RPPRCCAL is set to NO, internal repair receipts do not affect part prices.

Creating internal repair receipt headers
Create internal repair receipt headers for core tracked parts received for internal repair.
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Internal Repair Receipts.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the internal repair receipt belongs if
you use multi-organization security.
Internal Repair Receipt - Specify a description of the internal repair receipt in the
adjacent field. The system assigns an internal repair receipt number after you save the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

472 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

record.
Status - Select one of the options for the status:

Option

Description

Approved

When you approve an internal repair receipt, the
system automatically updates store quantities and
moves the repaired parts from Qty. at Shop to Qty.
on Hand of the part in the store into which the part is
received. The system also updates Qty. Received
and Qty. Scrapped on the Repair Parts tab of the
Work Orders form. The system updates the repair
details assignments by matching the work order and
lot and then by ordering by store and bin. If a part is
tracked by asset, the system also matches the asset
by which the part is tracked.
When you approve an internal repair receipt
and the part is condition tracked, the system updates
Qty. at Shop and Qty. Completed for the work order
repair part instead of the repair condition part. Qty.
on Hand is updated for the repair condition part
instead of the work order repair part. In addition, if the
part is tracked by asset and received, the status of
the associated asset is updated to Purchased/In
Store. If you scrap the part tracked by asset, the
status of the associated asset is updated to
Withdrawn, and the status of any child assets in a
hierarchy are also updated to Withdrawn.

Canceled

Select to indicate that the internal repair receipt is
canceled. If you select canceled, the system does not
update any system quantities for parts or work
orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

473 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Request Approval

After you have added part lines to the receipt, change
the status to Request Approval. The system protects
all fields except Status, Description, and Class.

Unfinished

The system automatically sets the Status of the
receipt to Unfinished. Unfinished status indicates that
the internal repair receipt is still in progress, and you
cannot modify the Status of the receipt from
Unfinished to anything but Canceled until part lines
have been added.

Work Order - Specify the work order for the internal repair receipt.
Store - Specify the store for the internal repair receipt.
Class - Specify the class of the commodity. The classes shown belong to the TRAN
entity.
4. Click Save Record.

Adding parts to internal repair receipts
Add parts to internal repair receipts after creating the internal repair receipt header. Part lines
on an internal receipt contain parts that have been repaired internally using work orders.
To add parts to internal repair receipts:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Internal Repair Receipts.
2. Select the internal repair receipt for which to add a part, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add to the internal repair receipt. If the part is condition
tracked, the system automatically populates Condition.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

474 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• You can add parts from the repair work order to the receipt individually, or you can
retrieve all the parts from the repair work order to the receipt at once.
• If you add or retrieve a core tracked part that is tracked by asset, the system
automatically creates a line for each individual part and enters 1 as the
Outstanding Qty. and Receipt Qty. for each line. You can change the Receipt
Qty. to 0 and enter 1 as the Scrapped Qty. if necessary.
Repair Condition - Specify the repair condition if the part is condition tracked.
Repair Price - Specify the repair price of the part.

• You can only update the Repair Price for the part if the RPPRPCCAL installation
parameter is set to YES.
• If you entered an Internal Repair Price for a part on the Repair Details page of
the Parts form, the system retrieves the Repair Price from the repair details for
the part. If you did not specify an Internal Repair Price, the system retrieves the
Base Price of the part for the Repair Price.
• When you return a core tracked part to a store for repair, the internal repair return
does not trigger a price update like a regular return. The system does not update
the inventory price until the part has been repaired or scrapped on an internal
repair receipt. The system uses the Repair Price to determine what cost should
be used for the cost update. For example, if a LIFO part was originally issued at
10 USD, the part was returned for repair and repaired on a work order, and then
the part was received on an internal repair receipt with a Repair Price of 5 USD,
the system inserts a new cost record for the part into the R5FIFO table valued at 5
USD.
Bin - Specify the bin number storing the part.
Lot - Specify the lot number or batch of the part.

• The SHOWLOT installation parameter determines whether lots are used for stock
information for parts. The default setting for SHOWLOT is Y. If SHOWLOT is set to
N, the system disables Lot.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

475 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• If parts were assigned from more than one lot in the assigned repair details, the
system creates a line on the receipt for each lot associated with each line on the
order. For example, if the work order contains a line with a quantity of 3 for which
there are 3 different lots assigned in the assigned repair details for the work order,
the system creates three lines with a quantity of 1 for each line. The system
calculates the Outstanding Qty. as each line is added and then applies it to the
Qty. Assigned for that lot in all stores and bins. The system then groups the
assignments by lot, takes the assigned records sorts, them by store and then by
bin.
Receipt Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part received for repair.
Scrapped Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part to be scrapped rather than
repaired.
The sum of the values entered for Receipt Qty. and Scrapped Qty. must
be greater than 0; however, their sum cannot exceed the value of Outstanding
Qty.
5. Click Submit.
The system updates the internal repair receipt record with the part details. The system
also creates a transaction of type RECV (goods received) for the parts on the receipt.

Creating pick tickets
Create pick tickets to identify a set of parts that are required for a work order activity. Pick
tickets facilitate the acquisition of materials needed for a pending work order activity by
enabling the worker assigned to a work order to create and print a list of parts required for the
work order activity. The worker can then take the ticket to the store and have the parts waiting
for pick-up in a short period of time, which makes a pick ticket different than a material list.
You can also associate multiple pick tickets with a work order activity or piece of equipment.
After creating a pick ticket, you can update the pick ticket status as necessary based on your
status change authorization privileges. Status change authorizations are set up on the Status
Authorizations form.
Once the pick ticket has been reviewed and updated as necessary, change the status of the
pick ticket to Approved. You can only issue parts listed on the pick ticket after the pick ticket is
Approved.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

476 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining pick ticket headers
Define pick ticket headers to specify the store and supplier information for the pick ticket and
the work order-activity or equipment for which the pick ticket is required. You must select
either a work order-activity or equipment to create a pick ticket header.
To define pick ticket headers:
1. Select Materials > Pick Tickets.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Pick Ticket - Specify a description of the pick ticket in the adjacent field. The system
assigns a pick ticket number after you save the record.
Store - Specify the store for which to create the pick ticket. The system automatically
populates Originator with the User ID of the logged in user.
Status - Select the status of the pick ticket. The system automatically assigns
Unfinished as the status of the pick ticket, or the equivalent user code status.
Date Required - Specify the date by which the list of parts is needed.
Class - Specify the class of the pick ticket. The classes shown belong to the PICK
entity.
4. Choose one of the pick ticket options:

Option

Description

Define the pick ticket for a work Specify the Work Order-Activity for which to define
order
a pick ticket. The system automatically populates
Equipment with the equipment on the work order
header.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

477 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define the pick ticket for a piece Specify the Equipment for which to define the pick
of the equipment
ticket.

5. Specify this information:
Deliver to Supplier - Specify the supplier to whom to deliver the parts.
Delivery Address - Specify the address to which to deliver the parts.
Deliver to Employee - Specify the employee to whom to deliver the parts.
Default Approver - Specify the individual responsible for approving the pick ticket.
6. Click Save Record.
The system populates and/or updates the Total Value of the pick ticket as parts
are added to the pick ticket. The system also populates Approved By and Date
Approved with the User ID of the approver and the date and time that the pick ticket
Status is set to Approved.

Adding parts to a pick ticket
Add parts to a pick ticket to create the actual list of items needed for a work order–activity or
piece of equipment.
After creating the parts list for the pick ticket, you can edit the parts list on the pick ticket as
necessary to add or delete parts and update the Required Qty. if the status of the pick ticket
is Unfinished. You cannot update the parts list for a pick ticket with a status other than
Unfinished.
To add parts to a pick tickets:
1. Select Materials > Pick Tickets.
2. Open the Pick Tickets form.
3. Select the pick ticket for which to define parts, and then click the Parts tab.
4. Click Add Part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

478 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Specify the Part, Condition, Required Qty., and Manufacturer.
6. Specify this information:
Manufacturer Part Number - Specify the primary manufacturer's part number.
The system may automatically populate Manufacturer and Manufacturer Part
Number depending on the MANUPART installation parameter. The system only
displays Manufacturer and Manufacturer Part Number when MANUPART=Yes.
7. Click Submit.
When you save the record, the system automatically populates the Unit Price
and the Available Qty. for each item on the pick ticket. The system also displays the
Qty. Issued of the part on the pick ticket, as well as the Available Qty. of the part in the
store.
To delete a part, select the part to delete, and then click Delete Part.

Importing a parts list for a pick ticket
Import a parts list for a pick ticket to retrieve an existing list of parts defined elsewhere in the
system to the parts list for the pick ticket. The source of the parts list can be a material list or
parts associated with a piece of equipment on the equipment record.
The system verifies whether any of the parts to import already exist on the pick ticket and
does not import any of the duplicate parts to the pick ticket.
To import a parts list for a pick ticket:
1. Select Materials > Pick Tickets.
2. Select the pick ticket for which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Import Parts List.
4. Specify this information:
From - Select to import the parts list from an equipment record or a preplanned material
list, and then specify the piece of equipment or material list from which to import the
parts in the adjacent field. The system automatically populates the parts list with the
parts associated with the selected equipment or material list.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

479 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Select the parts to import.
To select all lines at once, click Select All.
6. Click Submit. The system retrieves all of the parts displayed in the parts list to the pick
ticket.
7. Add or delete additional parts for the pick ticket as necessary.

Performing a physical inventory
Performing a physical inventory involves physically counting the materials you have in store
and comparing the inventory data that you gather during count with the data stored in your
online inventory. The physical inventory process enables you to reconcile your online
inventory with the actual stock on the shelves and in bins in your stores. This practice is
commonly referred to as a cycle count.
After you finish the physical count, you can enter the actual physical quantities found in your
cycle count. If you find that there are discrepancies between the Expected Qty. and the
Physical Qty. of inventory items, you can reconcile all of the inventory discrepancies, and
then approve the physical inventory record.

Generating a physical inventory counting sheet
Generate a physical inventory counting sheet to create a snapshot of the data in your online
inventory that you will use to compare with the data you gather during your cycle count.
Creating a physical inventory enables you to specify the store and inventory parameters that
identify the materials for which you will perform your cycle count.
Specify inventory parameters as necessary to generate a more narrow or specific list of part
data captured by the physical inventory snapshot. You can also specify a Physical Inventory
Date. If you specify a date, the system only includes items in the physical inventory that have
been specified into stock prior to the date specified.
You can also specify wildcards for the Part, Part Class, Stock Class, From Bin, and
To Bin inventory parameters as necessary to generate data. If you know all but one
character, you can specify the characters you know, and substitute _ for the unknown
character. If you only know a portion, you can specify the portion of the parameter that you
know, and substitute % for the remaining portion. For example, if you specify P% for Part, the
system retrieves all parts that begin with the letter "P." If you specify %PIP% for Part, the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

480 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system retrieves all parts with codes that include the letters "PIP."
When you generate a physical inventory record, the system only saves the snapshot of your
online inventory data generated by the physical inventory. It does not save the parameters
you specify. You must specify the parameters upon which to base generation of a physical
inventory record each time you want to generate a physical inventory record.
After you physically count your inventory, you can update your online inventory data on the
Parts page of the Physical Inventory form to reconcile any discrepancies in your physical and
online inventory. After reconciling any differences in your inventory data, you can update the
status and/or approve the physical inventory based on your status change authorization
privileges. However, the system enables and/or protects the fields available for update based
on the status from which you are updating the physical inventory. Status changes for physical
inventory Status change authorizations are set up for the TRAN entity on the Status
Authorizations form.
If you create a physical inventory record and are unable to perform the actual cycle count
immediately, the system also enables you to refresh an existing physical inventory to update
the expected quantities in the physical inventory data snapshot.
To generate a physical inventory counting sheet:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Physical Inventory.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Store - Select the store for which to create the physical inventory.
Physical Inventory - Specify a description of the physical inventory in the adjacent
field. The system assigns a physical inventory number after you save the record. The
system automatically populates Created By and Date Created.
Status - Select the status. The system automatically assigns Unfinished status to the
physical inventory, or the equivalent user code status.
If the SDATE installation parameter is set to YES, the system updates the
Physical Inventory Date to the current date when the status of the physical inventory is
set to Approved.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

481 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Assigned To - Specify the employee to assign to the physical inventory.
Part - Specify the part for which to create the physical inventory.
Part Class - Specify the part class for which to create the physical inventory.
Stock Class - Specify the stock for which to create the physical inventory.
ABC Class - Select the ABC class for which to create the physical inventory.
Include Consignment Item(s) - Select to include stock records for consignment items,
or items in stock that haven't been paid for, in the physical inventory.
From Bin - Specify the bin from which to create the physical inventory.
To Bin - Specify the bin to which to create the physical inventory.
Use From Bin and To Bin to indicate a bin range for which to create a physical
inventory for numbered bins. For example if you have numbered your bins
consecutively, such as 001, 002, 003, 004, 005, and you want to create a physical
inventory taken from the inventory contained in bins 001 through 005, specify 001 for
From Bin and 005 for To Bin to capture a physical inventory for the stock contained in
bins 001 through 005.
Physical Inventory Date - Specify the reference date for the physical inventory. If you
specify a date, the system selects only those parts whose Stock Date (the date the part
is specified into stock) is before the date specified for Physical Inventory Date.
Include Child Store(s) - Select to include stock records for all child stores of the
selected Store in the physical inventory.
Include Out of Service Item(s) - Select to include stock records for out of service parts
in the physical inventory.
4. Click Save Record.
After generating the physical inventory and printing the counting sheet,
transactions such as issues, returns, and receipts may occur before the database is
updated. To update the expected quantities to reflect the current levels in the database,
you can select a physical inventory record to update, right-click on the form, and then
select Refresh Inventory. The system updates the expected quantity of the parts on
the physical inventory record on the Parts tab of the Physical Inventory forms to the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

482 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

current levels. However, you can only refresh the physical inventory if the Status is
Unfinished.

Entering physical inventory quantities
Enter physical inventory quantities to update the actual physical quantities of inventory items
found during your cycle count. You can only enter physical inventory quantities for physical
inventory records with Unfinished status.
The setting of the STTKDISC installation parameters determines the manner in which the
system handles discrepancies between the expected quantities and physical quantities of
parts tracked by asset.
Regardless of the setting of the STTKDISC installation parameter, the system cannot
update the stock level for a part tracked by asset for which there is a discrepancy because
parts tracked by asset are tracked individually and their movements and quantities must be
accurately recorded.
To enter physical inventory quantities:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Physical Inventory.
2. Select the record for which to enter physical inventory quantities, and then click the
Parts tab.
3. Select the part for which to enter a physical inventory quantity, and then enter the actual
quantity of the part found during the cycle count in Physical Qty. Specify the physical
quantity for additional parts as necessary.
4. Click Save Record.

Refreshing existing physical inventory data
Refresh existing physical inventory data to update the expected quantities in the physical
inventory data snapshot as necessary. Refreshing existing physical inventory data enables
you to update an existing physical inventory if you have been unable to perform the actual
cycle count for some time following creating the physical inventory record. You can only
refresh physical inventory data for records with Unfinished status.
After refreshing existing physical inventory data, you can view the updated expected

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

483 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

quantities for the physical inventory on the Parts page.
To refresh existing physical inventory data:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Physical Inventory.
2. Select the record for which to refresh existing physical inventory data, and then click the
Record View tab.
3. Right-click on the form, and then select Refresh Inventory. The system updates the
quantities for the physical inventory on the Parts page.

Generating ABC analysis
Generate ABC analysis to create an ABC analysis report for reference purposes and/or to
update the class assignments for part.
ABC inventory analysis is an inventory method that enables you to divide your stock inventory
items into three groups or classes: A, B, and C. ABC class assignments are used as selection
criteria for a number of material management functions, such as EOQ calculations, stock
replenishment, repairable spares, and physical inventory counts.
To generate ABC analysis, specify a percentage value as the cutoff point for each of the three
classes. The system then assigns parts to one of the ABC classes by comparing the part’s
value to the value of other parts. Parts assigned to class A represent the largest percentage
of your total inventory value. Parts assigned to class B represent a moderate percentage of
your total inventory value. Parts assigned to class C represent a small percentage of your
total inventory value.
Depending on your preference, the system determines a part’s ABC class based on either
part value or part usage value. The system arranges the parts in descending order so that the
part with the largest Percentage of Value is first, with other parts following in descending
order according to their Percentage of Value. The system then assigns a class to each part
based on the percentages specified for A Cutoff Point %, B Cutoff Point %, and C Cutoff
Point %.
The system determines part value percentages using the Price Type specified for
each part. The system enables you to perform ABC Analysis for reference purposes without
affecting the current class assignments of a store’s parts, or you can click Update ABC Class
to automatically update part ABC classes.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

484 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Materials > Process > Generate ABC Analysis.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to generate ABC analysis if you use
multi-organization security.
Store - Specify store for which to perform ABC analysis.
You can also specify "wild cards" for Store necessary to generate data. If you
know all but one character, you can specify the characters you know, and substitute _
for the unknown character. If you only know a portion, you can specify the portion of the
parameter that you know, and substitute % for the remaining portion. For example, if
you specify P% for Store, the system retrieves all stores that begin with the letter "P." If
you specify %PIP% for Store, the system retrieves all stores with codes that include the
letters "PIP."
A Cutoff Point % - Specify the value of the cutoff point for A. The system automatically
specifies 70 as the default value.
B Cutoff Point % - Specify the value of the cutoff point for B. The system automatically
specifies 20 as the default value.
C Cutoff Point % - Specify the value of the cutoff point for C. The system automatically
specifies 10 as the default value.
The sum of the values specified for A Cutoff Point %, B Cutoff Point %, and
C Cutoff Point % must equal 100%, and you must specify a value for all three points.
3. Select one of the following options:

Option

Description

Usage Based

Select to calculate ABC analysis based on usage. If
you select Usage Based, the system displays the
Quantity as the number of parts issued within the
specified From Date and To Date range from the
store minus the returns to store. The system
calculates Total Value as the product of the Price

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

485 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and the Quantity. The Cumulative Percentage and
ABC Class are determined based on the usage value
for the part rather than the value on hand.

Value Based

Select to calculate ABC analysis based on values. If
you select Value Based, the system displays the
Quantity as the number of parts currently on hand in
the store. The Total Value is the product of the Price
and the Quantity. The Percentage of Value,
Cumulative Percentage, and ABC Class are
determined by the actual value of the parts currently
in stock. The system arranges the parts so that the
part with the largest percentage of total inventory
value is on top with other parts following in
descending order according to their percentage of
total inventory value.

4. Specify this information:
From Date and To Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for the usage based
analysis.
Print ABC Analysis - Select to print an ABC analysis report.
5. Click Process. The system displays the Preview page listing all of the parts for which to
generate ABC analysis.
6. Select each part line for which you wish to generate ABC analysis. The system
automatically selects all of the part lines. You may remove individual lines from the list
by clearing the line. The system does not update the class assignments for unselected
lines.
7. Select Print ABC Analysis to print an ABC analysis report.
8. Click Update ABC Class to update the class assignments for parts. The system
updates the class assignments and stores the calculated values for each selected part
record in the R5STOCK table. If any errors occur during the updates, the system
highlights the record in red and displays the error in Error Message.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

486 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Viewing and modifying materials information
View and modify materials information as necessary.

Viewing and modifying parts information
View and modify part information as necessary and specify revalued price information for
parts.
You can change the default Price Type for a specific part and update the average, last, and
standard pricing information for a part. However, you can only update Average price, Last
price, and Standard price for parts if the PRICELEV installation parameter is set to P. Price
Type defaults to the value specified for PRICETYP, but you can also update and specify
default price types for individual parts as necessary.
When PRICELEV is S, prices are always set and updated on the Stores page of the Parts
form. When PRICELEV is set to P, prices are set and updated on the Record View page of
the Part form. However, if you are using multi-organization security (MOS) and PRICELEV is
P, then part prices are set and updated on the Prices page of the Part form.
Revaluation of price information for parts is calculated either at the time of the approval of a
receipt for a part or at the time of the approval of an invoice for a part, depending on the
setting of the PRICETIM installation parameter. Part revaluation is also calculated according
to the PRICETYP installation parameter, which specifies whether the system prices storeroom
materials based on the average, last, or standard price.
Any update of price information specified for the average, last, or standard price for a part is
copied to the base price of the part, which is the price of the part to be used as the basis for
all transactions for the part.
When updating price information, the system does not record a stock transaction for
a part if there is no quantity of the part on hand in store or if the updates do not affect the
base price of the part.
Delete part records as necessary. However, you cannot delete a part record after any of the
following:
• It has been associated with a piece of equipment.
• Parts have been recorded into stock.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

487 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• The part has been used in a pick ticket.
• The part is referenced by a purchase requisition.
• Store transactions have been made against it.
• The part has been allocated or reserved.
To view and modify part information:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. View the list of parts, and then double-click the row containing the part to view or modify.
3. View and modify part information as necessary.
Track by Asset can only be unselected when no asset or profile is associated
with the part.
4. Click Save Record.

Viewing and modifying associated documents
View or edit documents associated to the entity.
This popup is used when an entity does not have a Documents tab. To view and
modify associated documents:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view or modify a document, and then click the Stores tab.
3. Select a store, and then click Add/Edit Documents.
4. Choose one of these options as necessary:

Option

Description

To view or modify a document

Click View/Edit Document. Follow steps 5-10.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

488 of 2039

To associate a document to an
entity

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Click Add Document. Follow steps 5-10.

To create or upload a document Click Create/Upload Document. See Uploading
documents to the application.

5. Specify this information:
Document - Specify the document to view or edit. The system automatically populates
Document Description.
Print with Work Order - Select to print the document with the work order.
Copy to Work Order - Select to copy the document to the work order.
Print with Purchase Order - Select to print the document with the purchase order.
Copy to Purchase Order - Select to copy the document to the purchase order.
6. Click Save.

• To view the document, click View/Edit Document. Click View Document.
• To remove or modify the document link, click View/Edit Document. Click Remove
Document Link.

Viewing and modifying store information
View stores and related store details including parent/child store hierarchies. Modify price
details, tax codes, inventory details and more. Delete stores as necessary with some
exceptions. If a parent store has existing child stores, you cannot delete the store. Similarly,
you cannot delete a store when there is quantity on hand for a stock record within the store.
Price codes can be modified for stores if there are no outstanding store-to-store transactions.
A system verification check is run to check for existing outstanding store-to-store transactions.
If outstanding transactions exist for a store, including receipts, you must first approve or
cancel the transactions before you can update Price Code for the store

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

489 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To modify price type for a store on this screen, price must be set at the store level, that is the
PRICELEV installation parameter must be set to S.
If the PRICELEV installation parameter is set to P, Price Type is hidden and
protected on this screen because the price type is set at the part level.
When price type is set at the store level, the same part can have a different prices at various
stores. The default price type for each store is determined by the value of the PRICETYP
installation parameter. Options include average, standard, last, last in first out, and first in first
out.
See the table below for PRICETYP parameter options and the corresponding default values
for Price Type.
Note: If you modify Price Type for the store on this screen, the value is also defaulted as the
Price Type on the Stores tab of the Parts screen.

PRICETYP Value

Default Value for Price Type

A

Average

S

Standard

L

Last

LIFO

Last In First Out

FIFO

First In First Out

If you modify the Parent Store for which Copy Parent’s Reorder Details is selected, the
form is automatically cleared. Additionally, you can only select a Parent Store for the store
that is not already designated as a child store in the store hierarchy for the store.
1. Select Materials > Setup > Stores.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

490 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. View the store list, and then double-click the row containing the store to view or modify.
3. View and modify store details as necessary.
4. Click Save Record.

Viewing and modifying stores associated with parts
View and modify stores associated with parts to review or update store information for a part.
The PRICELEV installation parameter determines the manner in which the system records
prices for parts. The default value for PRICELEV is P, which indicates that prices are recorded
at the part level, enabling you to specify the price for a part at the parts level on either the
Record View page of the Parts form or the Prices page of the Parts form depending on
whether you are using MOS. If PRICELEV is set to S, part prices are recorded at the stock
level on the Stores page, enabling you to specify different prices for the same part in different
stores.
If PRICELEV is P, the system disables Price Type, Average Price, Last Price,
Standard Price, and Base Price fields and hides them on the Stores page of the Parts form.
You can change Price Type for a part as necessary. However, if there is a quantity of the part
on hand and changing the price type affects the base price of the part, the system records a
MPTC stock transaction for the part. If there is no quantity of the part on hand or if changing
the price type does not change the base price of the part, the system does not record a
transaction for the price type change.
If there is a current quantity of the part on hand and you update the price type to last in first
out (LIFO) or first in first out (FIFO), the system creates a stock record for the part in the
R5FIFO table part and sets Average Price to the Base Price. The stock record includes the
quantity of the part on hand and the price. If there is no quantity on hand, the system does not
insert a record into the R5FIFO table.
If you change the price type from LIFO or FIFO to average, last, or standard, the system
deletes the record of the part from the R5FIFO table. If any of the price fields are null, the
system considers the price to be zero.
Additionally, if there is a current quantity of the part on hand and you change the price type to
standard or last and then specify a Standard Price, the system records both a MPTC and
CORR stock transaction.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

491 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Preferred Store and Preferred Supplier are used for automatic requisition generation for low
stock items. Selecting a Preferred Store indicates that the requisition type for the part in
store is a Store-to-Store transfer. Because Preferred Store and Preferred Supplier provide
different information for a requisition, you can specify either a Preferred Supplier or
Preferred Store. You cannot specify a value for both. Selecting a Preferred Supplier
indicates that the requisition type for the part is Goods Requested. Selecting a Preferred
Store indicates that the requisition for the part should be Store-to-Store.
To view and modify stores associated with parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to modify store information, and then click the Stores tab.
3. Select the store for which to view or modify information.
4. Modify store information for the part as necessary.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing and modifying stock information for parts
View and modify stock information for parts to update the quantity of a part in stock. You can
only update the Qty. on Hand when modifying stock information for parts. Store, Bin, Price,
and Lot are protected. If you specify a new Qty. on Hand for the part, the system creates an
approved stock transaction for the difference between the old quantity and the new quantity.
You cannot delete a stock record for a part if the Qty. on Hand of the part is greater
than zero.
If you set the Price Type for parts in the store to last in first out price or first in first out price,
then the system inserts a stock record in the R5FIFO table for the parts. If you change the
Price Type for parts in store from last in first out price or first in first out price to Average,
Last, or Standard, then the system deletes the stock records for any parts in the store from
the R5FIFO table.
To view and modify stock information for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view and modify stock information, and then click the Stock

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

492 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

tab.
3. Specify this information:
Qty. on Hand - Specify the new quantity of the part in stock.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing and modifying multiple prices of parts (MOS)
View and modify multiple prices of parts as necessary.
You can change the default Price Type for a specific part in its organization and update the
average, last, and standard pricing information for the part. However, you can only update
Average price, Last price, and Standard price for parts if the PRICELEV installation
parameter is set to P.
Any update of price information specified for the average, last, or standard price for a part is
copied to the base price of the part in its organization, which is the price of the part to be used
as the basis for all transactions for the part in its organization.
When updating price information, the system does not record a stock transaction for
a part if there is no quantity of the part on hand in store or if the updates do not affect the
base price of the part in its organization.
You can change Price Type for a part as necessary. However, if there is a quantity of the part
on hand and changing the price type affects the base price of the part, the system records a
MPTC stock transaction for the part. If there is no quantity of the part on hand or if changing
the price type does not change the base price of the part, the system does not record a
transaction for the price type change.
If there is a current quantity of the part on hand and you update the price type to last in first
out (LIFO) or first in first out (FIFO), the system creates a stock record for the part in the
R5FIFO table part and sets Average Price to the Base Price. The stock record includes the
quantity of the part on hand and the price. If there is no quantity on hand, the system does not
insert a record into the R5FIFO table.
If you change the price type from LIFO or FIFO to average, last, or standard, the system
deletes the record of the part from the R5FIFO table. If any of the price fields are null, the
system considers the price to be zero.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

493 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Additionally, if there is a current quantity of the part on hand and you change the price type to
standard or last and then specify a Standard Price, the system records both a MPTC and
CORR stock transaction.
Revaluation of price information for parts is calculated either at the time of the approval of a
receipt for a part or at the time of the approval of an invoice for a part, depending on the
setting of the PRICETIM installation parameter. Part revaluation is also calculated according
to the PRICETYP installation parameter, which specifies whether the system prices storeroom
materials based on the average, last, or standard price.
To view and modify multiple prices of parts (MOS):
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view or modify prices, and then click the Prices tab.
3. View and modify the price information as necessary.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing and modifying part inspections
View and modify records for incoming part inspections. To view and modify part inspections:
1. Select Materials > Transactions > Part Inspections.
2. Select the part inspection record to view or modify, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Specify this information:
Status - Select one of these options:

Option

Description

Unfinished (U)

Indicates that parts have not been inspected.

Fully rejected (FJ)

Indicates that, after inspection, all parts have been
rejected.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

494 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Partially Rejected (PJ)

Indicates that, after inspection, only some parts have
not been rejected.

Approved (A)

Indicates that all parts have been approved or that no
parts for this order require inspection.

Part Location - Specify the code identifying the receiving location as necessary.
Inspection Qty. - Specify the number of parts inspected.
Rejected Qty. - Specify the number of parts rejected, if any.
Reason for Return - Specify the reason for rejecting or returning the part.
Class - Specify the class of the inspection.
Inspected By - Specify the employee who inspected the parts.
Date Inspected - Specify the date of the inspection.
4. Click Save Record. The system automatically populates Updated By and Date
Updated.

Viewing usage and demand of parts
View usage and demand of parts stocked in stores within your organization. For each part,
the system identifies each store to which the part has been issued or from which store the
part has been returned, the day through which the part usage occurred, demand, and usage.
To know how the system determines usage and demand, see the following formulas:
Usage = Issues - Returns
Demand = Quantity of Outgoing Parts – Quantity of Incoming Parts +/Physical Inventory
(Outgoing Parts = Issues + Transfers Out + Supplier Returns)
(Incoming Parts = Returns, Transfers In, Receipts, and Stock
Initializations)

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

495 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To view usage and demand of parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view usage information, and then click the Usage tab.
3. Click Generate Usage.
4. View the part usage information.
The system displays the following information for each part in the Usage list:

Field

Description

Store

The store for which usage transactions, such as issues and
returns, have occurred

Month

The last day through which the usage occurred
The date displayed can never be the current date,
because transaction can still occur or be occurring for the
current date.

Usage

The difference between the total issues and the returns for
the selected part and store during the given month

Demand

The difference between the quantity of incoming parts,
such as receipts, returns, and incoming part transfers, and
the quantity of outgoing parts, such as issues, transfers,
returns to vendors, and so forth.
Demand also reflects part additions or
subtractions due to physical inventories and stock
initialization

Viewing part details

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

496 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View a list of stores where a part is currently in stock. The Part Details popup will display part
quantities and availability.
To view part details:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view details, and then right-click on the form in the Record
View.
3. Select View Part Details.
4. Specify this information:
Store - Specify the store for which to view part details.
5. View the part details information.
6. Click Close.

Viewing stock levels by part
To view stock levels by part:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view stock levels, and then click the Overview tab.
3. View the stock level information.

Viewing purchasing contracts for parts
To view purchasing contracts for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view the purchasing contract, and then click the Contracts
tab.
3. View the purchasing contract information.

Viewing requisitions for parts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

497 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View requisitions for parts as necessary. The system displays all requisitions, including storeto-store requisitions.
To view requisitions for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view requisitions, and then click the Requisitions tab.
3. View the requisition information.

Viewing purchase orders for parts
View purchase orders for parts that have not been fully received.
To view purchase orders for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view purchase orders, and then click the Purchase Orders
tab.
3. View the purchase order information.

Viewing purchase order history for parts
View purchase order history for parts for both open and completed purchase orders. To view
purchase order history for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view purchase order history, and then click the PO History
tab.
3. View the purchase order history.

Viewing stock values for LIFO/FIFO parts
To view stock values for LIFO/FIFO parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

498 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the part for which to view stock values, and then click the Stock Value tab.
3. View the stock value information.

Viewing when and where a part has been used
View when and where a part has been used on the Where Used page of the Parts form.
When you associate one part with another part via a Parts Associated page, the system
keeps a record of the association and displays the information on the Where Used page.
The system only shows associations of equipment records. To view when and where
a part has been used:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view usage information, and then click the Where Used tab.
3. View when and where the part was used.
The system displays the following information for each part in the Where Used list:

Field

Description

Entity

The entity to which the part was associated

Code

The code of the record, to which the part was associated,
such as an asset ID, part number, or work order

Organization

The organization record ot which the part was associated

Description

The description of the Code to which the part was
associated

Quantity

The quantity of the part that was associated to the entity,
code, and so forth

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

499 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Component Location

The component or part location to which the part was
associated

Comments

The comments entered when the part was associated

Type

The object type of the record to which the part was
associated

Viewing stock transactions for parts
View stock transactions for parts within the past 30 days.
To view stock transactions for parts:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view stock transactions, and then click the Transactions
tab.
3. View the stock transaction information.
The system displays the following information for each part in the Transactions list:

Field

Description

Part

The code of the part associated with the part transaction

Part Org.

The organization of the part associated with the part
transaction

Type

The type of transaction with which the part was associated,
such as Stocktake, Issue or return, Goods received, and so
forth

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

500 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Store

The code of the store with which the part transaction was
associated

Description

The description of the Store associated with the part
transaction

Store Org.

The organization of the Store associated with the part
transaction

Condition

The condition of the part associated with the part
transaction

Issued Part

The part associated to the condition for which it was
originally issued

Transaction Qty.

The quantity of the part involved in the transaction. Positive
quantities designate an increase in the quantity of the part
in inventory, such as a receipt. Negative quantities indicate
a decrease in the quantity of the part in inventory, such as
an issue or return.

Date

The date on which the part transaction occurred

Price

The price of the part the system used for the transaction

Issued By

If the part transaction is an issue, the system displays the
User ID of the user who issued the part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

501 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Issued To

If the part transaction is an issue, the system displays the
Employee code of the person to which the part was
issued.

Class

The class of the part

Class Org.

The organization of the Class

Transaction Number

The transaction number assigned to the transaction

Line

The line number of the part on the transaction involving the
part such as the line number on the requisition, purchase
order, work order, and so forth

Status

The current status of the transaction involving the part

Pick Ticket

If the part was added to a pick ticket, the system displays
the number.

Work Order

If the part was added to a work order, the system displays
the number.

Activity

If the part was added to work order, the system displays
the work order number for which the part transaction
occurred.

Purchase Order

If the part was added to purchase order, the system
displays the number.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

502 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

PO Org.

The organization of the purchase order associated with the
part transaction

Requisition

If the part was added to requisition, the system displays the
number.

Supplier

The supplier for the requisition associated with the part
transaction

Bin

The bin involved in the part transaction. For issue
transactions, the system displays the bin location from
which the part is issued. For receipts, the system displays
the bin location in which the part is received.

Lot

The lot of the part involved in the transaction

Asset ID

The code of the equipment associated with the transaction

Asset Org.

The organization of the Asset ID associated with the part
transaction

Parent Work Order

If the transaction for the part is associated with a MEC
work order, the the system displays the number identifying
the parent multiple equipment work order associated with
the transaction.
The system enables you to search for all transaction
associated with a multiple equipment work order by
defining a Quick Filter using Parent Work Order as part of
the filter criteria.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

503 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Warranty

Indicates whether the part involved in the transaction is
covered under warranty

Consignment

Indicates whether the part involved in the transaction is a
part under consignment

Direct

Indicates whether the part involved in the transaction is a
direct purchase item received directly to a work order,
purchase order, and so forth

Viewing stock in-transit for parts
View stock information for parts held in stores that are in-transit between stores. To view stock
in-transit for parts:
1. Select Materials > Setup > Stores
2. Select the store for which to view stock in-transit information, and then click the Stock
In-transit tab.
3. View the stock information for the parts held in the selected store that currently have Intransit status. The system displays the following information for each part in the Stock
In-transit list:

Field

Description

Part

The code of the part that is in-transit

Part Description

The description of the part that is in-transit

Part Org.

The organization of the part that is in-transit

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

504 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Quantity

The quantity of the part that is in-transit

For Repair Qty.

The quantity of the a repairable spare part that is currently
in-transit for repair. Repairable spare parts have repair
details associated on the part record that specify whether a
part is to be repaired internally or externally, and they
include additional information about the part that the
system uses to generate repair work orders or requisitions
for repairing the part. Therefore, a value displayed for For
Repair Qty. indicates that the part is in-transit for repair
internally or externally.

Destination

The entity of the destination, such as PART or STOR

Destination Code

The code identifying the destination, such as the part code
or store code

Purchase Order

The purchase order associated with the transaction for
which the part is in-transit

PO Org.

The organization of the purchase order associated with the
transaction for which the part is in-transit

Requisition

The requisition associated with the transaction for which
the part is in-transit

Equipment

The equipment associated with the transaction for which
the part is in-transit

Equipment Org.

The organization of the equipment associated with the
transaction for which the part is in-transit

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

505 of 2039

Lot

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The lot of the part that is in-transit

Viewing part reservations
View part reservations for parts in store that are reserved or allocated for work orders.
To view part reservations:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part for which to view part reservations, and then click the Stores tab.
3. Select the store for which to view part reservations, and then click View Parts
Reserved.
4. View the work order reservations for the part in the selected store.
Part reservations can be initiated by material lists or reservations initiated on a
work order.
5. Click Close.

Viewing parts associated with manufacturers
To view parts associated with manufacturers:
1. Select Materials > Overview > Manufacturer Part Numbers.
2. View the parts information.

Viewing parts associated with suppliers
To view parts associated with suppliers:
1. Select Materials > Overview > Supplier Part Numbers.
2. View the part information.

Managing iProcure items in the EAM application

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

506 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

iProcure allows customers to plan work, track parts usage, manage stock levels, and
replenish stock via the Internet. Now HxGN EAM customers with iProcure can manage part
information in HxGN EAM.
This section covers functionality available in iProcure. If you have not purchased
iProcure, you do not have access to all of the functionality covered in this section.

Creating iProcure vendors
Create iProcure vendors in HxGN EAM.
1. Select Materials > Setup > iProcure Vendors.
2. Click the Record View tab.
3. Click Download iProcure Vendors.
4. Click OK.
To create EAM suppliers, click Create HxGN EAM Suppliers.

Creating EAM suppliers for iProcure vendors
Create a new supplier for each iProcure vendor that currently does not have an associated
supplier record.
1. Select Materials > Setup > iProcure Vendors.
2. Click the Record View tab.
3. Click Create HxGN EAM Suppliers. A new supplier record is created for each vendor
record that currently does not have an associated supplier record.
4. Click OK.

Associating EAM suppliers with iProcure vendors
Associate an EAM supplier with an iProcure vendor in HxGN EAM.
1. Select Materials > Setup > iProcure Vendors.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

507 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the vendor, and then click the HxGN EAM Suppliers tab.
3. Click Add Supplier.
4. Specify this information:
Supplier - Specify the supplier.
5. Click Submit.

Associating iProcure items with parts
Associate Infor iProcure items with parts on the Suppliers page of the Parts form.
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part with which to associate iProcure items, and then click the Suppliers tab.
3. Select the supplier for which to update the parts catalog, and then click Add iProcure
Item Association.
4. Specify the Part #.
5. Select the item, and then enter the number of items.
6. Click Add to Cart to add the item to the shopping cart.
7. Click RETRIEVE PART. The part information is retrieved, the iProcure item is
associated with the part for the associated EAM supplier, and then the supplier catalog
is updated.

Updating iProcure items
Update iProcure items in the parts catalog.
To update iProcure items:
1. Select Materials > Parts.
2. Select the part to update, and then click the Suppliers tab.
3. Choose one of these options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

508 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Option

Description

Update iProcure Items

Click to update the parts catalog for all suppliers
associated with the selected part. The system
updates Gross Price, Lead Time, and iProcure
Date Last Updated in the parts catalog for all
suppliers.

Update Selected iProcure Item

Click to update the parts catalog for selected
suppliers associated with the selected part. The
system updates Gross Price, Lead Time, and
iProcure Date Last Updated in the parts catalog for
the selected suppliers.

Adding iProcure part items to requisitions
Add iProcure part items to requisitions.
To add iProcure part items to requisitions:
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition for which to add iProcure part items, and then click the Parts tab.
The requisition must have a status of Unfinished to add iProcure part items.
3. Click Add Parts (iProcure Items).
4. Specify the Part #.
5. Select the item to add, and then enter the number of items.
6. Click Add to Cart to add the item to the shopping cart.
7. Click Add Parts (iProcure Items). The iProcure part item is added to the selected
requisition, the supplier's catalog is updated, and iProcure Date Last Updated is
automatically populated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

509 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Viewing iProcure sync errors
View iProcure sync errors for part catalog records.
1. Select Materials > Requisitions.
2. Select the requisition for which to view iProcure sync errors, and then click the Parts
tab.
You may also view iProcure sync errors on the Suppliers tab of the Parts
page, the Parts tab of the Suppliers page, and the Parts tab of the Purchase Orders
page.
3. Click View iProcure Sync Errors.
4. View the errors.
5. Click Close.

Managing warranty claims for parts
Add, modify, delete, or view warranty claims for parts.
1. Select Materials > Part Warranty Claims.
2. Click the Record View tab.
If you are modifying a warranty claim, select the claim to modify, and then click
the Record View tab.
3. Specify a description of the warranty claim.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for the claim.
Status - Select the status of the claim.
Once the Status is set to Approved, the system automatically populates Date
Approved.
Warranty - Optionally, specify the warranty with which the claim is associated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

510 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Class - Specify the class of the warranty claim. The system automatically populates
Class Org.
Supplier - Optionally, specify a supplier for the warranty claim.
If you enter or change Warranty and the selected warranty has a supplier
specified, the system will populate Supplier and Supplier Org. from the selected
warranty, overwriting any existing values.
Manufacturer - Optionally, specify a manufacturer for the warranty claim.
If you enter or change Warranty and the selected warranty has a manufacturer
specified, the system will populate Manufacturer from the selected warranty,
overwriting any existing values.
RMA Number - Specify the return merchandise authorization (RMA) number.
Date Filed - Specify the date the warranty claim is filed.
Date Resolved - Specify the date the warranty claim is resolved.
Date Reported - Specify the date the warranty claim is reported.
5. Click Save Record.

Associating parts to part warranty claims
Associate a part with a warranty claim after creating a new warranty claim.
To associate parts with warranty claims:
1. Select Materials > Part Warranty Claims.
2. Select the warranty claim with which to associate parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to associate with the warranty claim.
The system automatically populates Part Description, Part Org., and
Manufacturer.
Quantity - Specify the total number of parts associated with the part.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

511 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Reimbursement Type - Specify the reimbursement type for the part warranty claim.
Claim Cash Amount - Specify the total cost for the parts.
Claim Replacement Qty. - Specify the number of parts to be replaced.
Settlement Cash Amount - Specify a monetary value for the settlement of the part
warranty claim.
Settlement Replacement Qty. - Specify the number of parts replaced.
Settlement Receiving Store - Specify the store that receives the settlement from the
part warranty claim.
Settlement Receiving Bin - Specify the bin that receives the settlement from the part
warranty claim.
Settlement Receiving Lot - Specify the store that receives the lot from the part
warranty claim.
If the status of the part warranty claim is Unfinished, the system protects
Settlement Cash Amount, Settlement Replacement Qty, Settlement Receiving
Store, Settlement Receiving Bin, and Settlement Receiving Lot.
4. Click Submit.

Importing parts for part warranty claims
The import parts screen shows parts that qualify for warranties but are not associated with a
warranty claim.
To import a part:
1. Select Materials > Part Warranty Claim.
2. Select the warranty claim for which to import parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Select Import Parts.
4. Select one or more of the parts to import, and then click Submit.
If the part you select to import is already assigned to the selected part warranty

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

512 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

claim, the new quantity is added to the existing quantity.

Viewing imported parts
View parts that have been imported for a part warranty claim.
To view imported parts:
1. Select Materials > Part Warranty Claim.
2. Select the part warranty claim for which to view imported parts, and then click the
Imported Parts tab.
3. View imported parts.

Purchasing management
The purchasing management module corresponds with the materials management module to
facilitate the process of purchasing goods. Use the purchasing management module to create
and revise purchase orders. You can also add existing parts or create new parts to add to
purchase orders, enter extra chargers or discounts, and associate purchasing clauses.

Defining initial purchase information
Define initial purchase information before using the purchasing management module.

Defining purchase order terms
Define purchase order terms to use in purchase order activities. Various suppliers might have
different types of purchase terms. The system has five predefined types of purchase order
terms. You can also edit purchase order terms as necessary.
For example, select Freight Terms as the type for an individual purchase order term. This
purchase order term appears in the Freight Terms lookup on the Suppliers form. Set up the
individual codes for each of these types of order terms:

Term

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

513 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

OB (Free On Board) point
(FOB)

Define where to take possession of an item such as a
receiving dock.

Freight terms (FRTR)

Establish how different freight charges are paid and who pays
them.

Payment terms (PAY)

Specify how a supplier is paid for a purchase such as COD.

Payment method (PYMT)

Specify what method is used to pay the supplier.

Ship via (SHIP)

Define how the supplier ships an item such as overnight,
regular mail, etc.

To define purchase order terms:
1. Select Purchasing > Setup > PO Terms.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the purchase order term belongs if you
use multi-organization security.
PO Term - Specify a unique code identifying the purchase order term, and then specify
a description of the purchase order term in the adjacent field.
Type - Select the type of purchase order term.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining purchasing clauses
Define purchasing clauses to create a list of legal agreements. Attach purchasing clauses to
contract classes, purchase orders, or blanket purchase orders. Use the International
Standards Organization (ISO) purchasing clauses predefined in the system, or define

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

514 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

purchasing clauses to suit your organization’s needs. You can also edit purchasing clauses
after creating them as necessary.
Finally, you can create hierarchies with a general purchasing clause as a parent and more
specific purchasing clauses set up as children.
To define purchasing clauses:
1. Select Purchasing > Setup > Purchasing Clauses.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the purchasing clause belongs if you
use multi-organization security.
Clause - Specify a unique code identifying the purchasing clause, and then specify a
description of the purchasing clause in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the purchasing clause.
Sequence Number - Specify a number to indicate the order of the child purchasing
clause in relation to the parent purchasing clause, if applicable. The sequence number
determines the hierarchy of the child purchasing clauses.
Parent Clause - Specify the parent purchasing clause, if applicable.
Out of Service - Select to prevent the purchasing clause from being displayed in the
lookups.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining children for purchasing clauses
Children can be added to purchasing clauses as additions to existing clauses.
To define children for purchasing clauses:
1. Select Purchasing > Setup > Purchasing Clauses.
2. Select the clause for which to define children, and then click the Children tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

515 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Add Child Clause.
4. Specify this information:
Sequence Number - Specify the sequence number for the clause.
Child Clause - Specify the child clause to associate with the contract class of the
header clause. The system automatically populates the child clause description and
Child Clause Org.
5. Click Submit.
To remove a child clause from the header clause, select the child clause to
remove, and then click Remove Child Clause.

Viewing purchasing clause hierarchies
View the existing relationship between ISO purchasing clauses as well as newly created
purchasing clauses.
To view purchasing clause hierarchies:
1. Select Purchasing > Setup > Purchasing Clauses.
2. Select the purchasing clause for which to view the hierarchy, and then click the
Children tab.
3. View the purchasing clause information.

Defining delivery addresses
Define and maintain delivery addresses for purchasing and materials.
1. Select Purchasing > Setup > Delivery Addresses.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Delivery Address - Specify a unique code identifying the delivery address, and then
specify a description of the delivery address in the adjacent field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

516 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the address and phone information where the purchasing and materials items
are to be delivered.
E-mail Address - Specify the e-mail address for the delivery address.
Full Address - Specify the full delivery address.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to prevent the delivery address from
being displayed in lookups.
5. Optionally, select the Valid for All Organizations check box to indicate the delivery
address is valid for all organizations across your enterprise.
6. Click Save Record.

Associating organizations with delivery addresses
Associate a single or multiple organizations with a delivery address.
1. Select Purchasing > Setup > Delivery Addresses.
2. Click the Organizations tab.
3. Click Add Organization.
4. Select the organization(s) to associate with the delivery address.
Organization records cannot be associated with the delivery address on this tab
if the Valid for All Organizations check box is turned on for the delivery address on the
record view.
5. Click Submit.

Defining credit cards
Define credit cards for use as payment on purchase orders.
To define credit cards:
1. Select Purchasing > Setup > Credit Cards.
2. Click New Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

517 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the credit card if you use multi-organizational
security.
Last 4 of Credit Card - Specify the last four digits of the credit card number, and then
enter a description of the credit card in the adjacent field.
Type - Specify the type of the credit card.
Expiration (Month/Year) - Specify a two-digit number for the month, and then enter a
four-digit number for the year.
Class - Specify the class of the credit card.
Class Org. - Specify the organization of the class.
Expiration Date - Specify the expiration date for the credit card. The system defaults
Expiration Date to the month entered as the Expiration month, the last day of the
Expiration month, and the year of Expiration.
Name - Specify the name that appears on the credit card.
Out of Service - Select to set this credit card record to out of service.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining users for credit cards
Define users authorized to charge purchase orders to a specific credit card.
To define users for credit cards:
1. Select Purchasing > Setup > Credit Cards.
2. Select the credit card number for which to define users, and then click the Users tab.
3. Specify this information:
User - Specify the name of the user to associate with the credit card number. The
system automatically populates the user description.
Default - Select to set the user as the default user for the credit card number.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

518 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Submit.

Creating and revising purchase orders
Create and revise purchase orders. The purchase order creation process has several steps.
First, create the purchase order header and then add line items for parts and services. At this
stage, you can also adjust part charges, associate clauses, create work orders and activities
from service lines, and associate assets for parts tracked by asset. Next, change the status to
Ready for printing to print the purchase order for approval. Finally, approve the purchase
order and send it to the supplier. To change the status of a purchase order, specify a new
status on the Record View page of the Purchase Orders form. See the following
descriptions when changing the status:

Option

Description

Unfinished

The purchase order is at the creation stage. Create the
purchase order header and add parts.

Ready for printing

The purchase order is ready for approval and printing.

Canceled

The purchase order is canceled.

Approved/completed

The purchase order is approved and ready to be sent to
a supplier.

When you approve a purchase order containing lines with repairable spare parts of
Type External Repair, the system moves the Requested Qty. (UOM) of the part from the
Core Qty. to the Qty. at Supplier on the Stores page of the Parts form. If the is part tracked
by asset, the system changes the status of the asset associated with the part to In Repair. If
the asset is a parent in an asset hierarchy, the system changes the status of any dependent
child assets to In Repair.
If you cancel a purchase order containing lines with repairable spare parts of Type External
Repair, the system gives you the option to cancel the requisition. If you select to also cancel

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

519 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the requisition, the system deletes the repair detail assignments for the part, and if the parts
have been moved from Core Qty. to Qty at Supplier, the system moves the parts back to the
Core Qty.

Creating purchase order headers
Create purchase order headers for new purchase orders.
If you are the originator of a purchase order, you might have an approval limit. This
limit defines the total maximum value of all the line items on a purchase order. The approval
limit may be set up at either the purchase order header level or the line item detail level. If the
total exceeds your limit, you might need to have someone else (typically a manager) approve
the amount.
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the purchase order belongs if you use
multi-organization security. The system automatically populates the purchase order
description, Status, Store, Buyer, and Due Date.
Purchase Order - Specify a description of the purchase order in the adjacent field. The
system assigns a purchase order number after you save the record. If the purchase
order has numerous revisions, the system automatically populates Revision Number.
Status - Select the status value of the purchase order.
Your authorization level determines the values available for Status.
Store - Specify a storeroom.
Originator - Specify the employee requesting the purchase order.
Due Date - Specify the expected arrival date for the items.
Buyer - Specify the buyer responsible for the purchase order.
Delivery Address - Specify the delivery address for the purchase order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

520 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Class - Specify the class of the purchase order. The system automatically populates
Class Org.
Package Tracking Number - Specify the unique number by which to track the delivery
of the shipment for the purchase order.
Convert to ASN - Select to create a receipt document in an external or alternate
warehouse management system to complete the receiving process from the supplier.
Supplier - Specify a supplier. The system automatically populates the supplier’s default
Currency, the current Exchange Rate, Language, and Lead Time (Days).
If the items are covered under a specific contract with a supplier, the system displays
Contract and Discount information after you add lines to the purchase order. Contract
and Discount apply only to individual orders.
Currency - Specify the currency you use to purchase the item.
Exchange Rate - Specify the current exchange rate.
You can update the Currency if there is an exchange rate defined for the
currency. You can update the Exchange Rate when the EXRTUPDT installation
parameter is set to YES.
Default Approver - Specify the employee responsible for approving the purchase order.
Ship Via - Specify the manner in which the supplier ships the specific item.
Payment Terms - Specify the manner in which the supplier is paid for the purchase.
Freight Terms - Specify the manner in which the freight charges are paid and who pays
them.
FOB Point - Specify where you take possession of the item.
Payment Method - Specify the method used to pay the supplier.
Click Default Terms. The system automatically populates Ship Via, Payment
Terms, Freight Terms, FOB Point, and Payment Method with the values specified on
the Suppliers form.
After the purchase order is approved, the system displays Approved By and Date

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

521 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Approved.
After lines are added to the purchase order, the system displays Part Lines, Service
Lines, PO Lines, Total Tax, Total Extra Charges/Discounts, Total Part Value, Total
Service Value, and Total PO Value.
4. Click Save Record.

• Click Create New Revision to create a new revision of the purchase order.
• Click Receive All Parts to create a receipt for all outstanding parts.

Adding part details to purchase orders
Add specific line items to the purchase order. You can add both cataloged and non-cataloged
parts, and you can add items from an existing requisition. You can also create new parts to
add to purchase orders and edit a part description if the part has not been used in other parts
of the system.
You can only add part details to a purchase order if the purchase order header status
is Unfinished. You can only update part details if the part line status is Unfinished.
The Edit Parts Description pop-up window is only available for parts with N class
designation. These are new parts created on the selected screen; parts which can have their
description changed. However, when the description is changed the part is no longer
accessible in the Edit Parts Description pop-up for editing.
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase order for which to add part details, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part Line.
4. Specify this information:
Requisition-Line - Specify the requisition and line number from which to add the part(s)
to the purchase order. If you select a Requisition-Line, the system populates and
overwrites these fields from the requisition: Due Date, Requested Qty., Part,
Description, Part Org., Supp. Catalog Reference, Requested Qty. (UOM), Price,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

522 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work Order-Activity, Cost Code, Inspection, Line Type, and Assigned Qty.
If the selected Requisition-Line contains parts related to a multiple equipment
work order, then the system populates Work Order-Activity, Equipment, Equipment
Org., and Related Work Order from the requisition/line.
Part - Specify the part to add to the purchase order. If the part is cataloged, the system
automatically populates the part description, Purchase Qty. (UOP), Requested Qty.
(UOM), Price, Qty. per UOP, Contract Discount, Part Line Subtotal, Total Tax
Amount, Total Extra Charges/Discounts, and Part Line Total.
The Assigned Qty. for a core tracked part is equal to the number of parts for
which repair details are assigned for the requisition line.
The system performs a search to find an approved contract for the selected part. If an
approved contract is found, the system populates Contract with the contract that was
found.
The system searches for an approved contract for the selected PO header supplier,
store, and currency.
Type - Select the type of materials to order.
Line - Specify the line number of the purchase order.
Purchase Qty. (UOP) - Specify the amount and UOP in which the supplier provides the
part.
Requested Qty. (UOM) - Specify the amount in which you receive the part to stock. The
system automatically populates the UOM.
Price - Specify the price of a single part and the currency you use to purchase the part
in the adjacent field.
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order and activity if you are ordering this item
for a work order activity. When you select a Work Order–Activity, the system
automatically populates Type with Direct Materials and populates Equipment from the
work order, and it is protected.
If the selected Work Order–Activity is a multiple equipment work order, the
system enables Equipment, and it is required.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

523 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the purchase order if you have not
entered a Work Order–Activity and want to associate an equipment record with the
purchase order. The system populates Type with Direct Materials.
Choose one of these if the work order is a multiple equipment work order:
• Specify a specific equipment to which to distribute the cost of the part.
• Specify All Equipment to evenly distribute the cost of the part to each equipment
record on the work order.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to distribute the cost of the part to the equipment
on the work order header only.
If the selected Part is tracked by asset, then the system clears
Equipment, Equipment Org., and Related Work Order because you cannot
distribute a part tracked by asset across multiple equipment.
Delivery Address - Specify the address to which to deliver the part.
Tax Code - Specify any additional taxes to apply to the part line as necessary.
Status - Select the status of the part line.
The system does not move core tracked parts for which there are repair
detail assignments from Core Qty. to Qty. at Supplier until the Status of the
purchase order header is Approved, regardless of the status of the part line.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If
the selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically
populate Condition.
Qty. per UOP - Specify the conversion factor.
For example, if the supplier's UOM for the part is a case of 12 parts but
your UOM for the part is each, Purchase Qty. (UOP) will be 1 for one case, but
Requested Qty. (UOM) will be 12 (1 case = 12 parts). If you enter 2 for the
Purchase Qty. (UOP), the system uses Qty. per UOP to update the Requested
Qty. to 24.
Due Date - Specify the expected arrival date of the items.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

524 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Package Tracking Number - Specify the unique number by which to track the
delivery of the shipment for the purchase order.
Track by Asset - The system displays whether or not the part is tracked as an
asset.
5. Click Submit. A new line number is created for each new part line added. If you wish to
update a line number, use Screen Designer to display Line and then manually enter a
new part line.

• If you have a preset monetary limit established for purchase orders, the system
will not allow you to save any amount greater than this limit. If MOS is set to YES,
the limit is determined on the Organizations page of the Users form. If MOS is
set to NO, the limit is determined on the Users form.
• To select multiple parts, click Select Parts.
• To select multiple supplier catalog parts, click Select Supp. Catalog Parts.
• To enter extra charges or discounts for the part, click Extra Charges/Discounts.
• To add parts to the purchase order, click Add Parts (iProcure items).
• To update iProcure items in the parts catalog, click Update iProcure Items.
• To view iProcure sync errors, click View iProcure Sync Errors.
• To select a substitute part for the purchase order, click Select Substitute Part.
6. Click Submit.
To edit a part description, click Edit Parts Description and specify the new part
description, then click Submit.

Creating new parts to add to purchase orders
Create new parts to add to purchase orders. When you need to add a part that has not been
previously created in the system, create the new part on the Parts page of the Purchase
Orders form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

525 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You cannot create a new part for an existing part line.
To create new parts to add to purchase orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase order for which to create new parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Create Part. The system automatically populates Part with a number that starts
with N. Specify a description of the part in the adjacent field.
4. Specify this information:
Type - Select the type of materials to order.
Part Org. - Modify the part organization as necessary.
This value depends on the settings for the IPSUPP parameter. If IPSUPP is set
to H and MOS is turned on, then the Part Org. defaults to the organization of the
purchase order header but can be updated to any common organization. If IPSUPP is
set to S, then the Part Org. defaults to the organization of the supplier on the header. If
IPSUPP is set to C, then the Part Org. defaults to the common organization specified by
the install parameter IPSUPPC.
Purchase Qty. (UOP) - Specify the amount and UOP in which the supplier provides the
part.
Requested Qty. (UOM) - Specify the amount in which you receive the part to stock. The
system automatically populates the UOM.
Price - Specify the price of a single part and the currency you use to purchase the part.
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order and activity if you are ordering this item
for a work order activity. The system automatically populates Type with Direct Purchase.
Tax Code - Specify any additional taxes to apply to the part line as necessary.
Status - Select the status of the part line.
Qty. per UOP - Specify the conversion factor.
For example, if the supplier's UOM for the part is a case of 12 parts but your
UOM for the part is each, Purchase Qty. (UOP) will be 1 for one case, but Requested

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

526 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Qty. (UOM) will be 12 (1 case = 12 parts). If you specify 2 for the Purchase Qty. (UOP),
the system uses Qty. per UOP to update the Requested Qty. to 24.
Due Date - Specify the expected arrival date of the items.
Track by Asset - The system displays whether or not the part is tracked as an asset.
5. Click Submit.
Specify the amount and UOP in which the supplier provides. To add an
iProcure part, click Add Parts (iProcure Items). To update iProcure items in the parts
catalog, click Update iProcure Items. To view iProcure sync errors, click View
iProcure Sync Errors.

Adding multiple parts to purchase orders
Select and retrieve multiple parts for purchase orders.
To add multiple parts to purchase orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select a purchase order for which to add multiple parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Select Parts.
4. Specify this information:
Select - Select the parts to add to the purchase order.
Purchase Qty. - Specify the purchase quantity for each selected part.
5. Click Submit.
Select Planned Part to add the parts to the WO-Activity as planned parts.
Planned Part is available only when parts are defaulted as Direct Materials.

Selecting multiple supplier catalog parts for purchase orders
Select and retrieve multiple supplier catalog parts on the Parts tab of the Purchase Order
screen.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

527 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To select catalog parts for purchase orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase orders to which to add supplier catalog parts, and then click the
Parts tab.
3. Click Select Supp. Catalog Parts
4. Select the parts to add and then specify the Purchase Qty for each part.
5. Click Submit.

Adding iProcure part items to purchase orders
Add iProcure part items to purchase orders.
To add iProcure part items to purchase orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase order to which to add iProcure part items, and then click the Parts
tab.
The purchase order must have a status of Unfinished to add iProcure part
items.
3. Click Add Parts (iProcure Items).
4. Specify the Part #.
5. Select the item, and then enter the number of items.
6. Click Save Record.
7. Click Add Parts (iProcure Items).The system automatically populates iProcure Date
Last Updated.

Updating iProcure items
Update iProcure items in the parts catalog.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

528 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To update iProcure items:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the purchase order, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Update iProcure Items. The system updates the parts catalog for PO suppliers
and only parts on the selected PO record. The system automatically populates Gross
Price, Lead Time, and iProcure Date Last Updated in the parts catalog for all
suppliers.

Entering extra charges or discounts
Enter extra charges or apply special discounts to a purchase order line.
You can only apply extra charges or discounts to a saved part line with a status of
Unfinished.
To enter extra charges or discounts:
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase order for which to enter extra charges or discounts, and then click
the Parts tab.
3. Select the part line for which to enter extra charges or discounts.
4. Click Extra Charges/Discounts.
5. Click Add Charge/Discount. The system automatically populates Sequence Number
based on the next incremental line number.
6. Specify this information:
Sequence Number - Specify the sequence number of the part line.
Type - Select the type of charge/discount.
Amount - Specify the amount of the charge/discount. Specify a positive number for an
extra charge or a negative number for a discount.
Percentage - Specify the percentage of the charge/discount. Specify a positive number

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

529 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

for an extra charge or a negative number for a discount.
You must specify either an amount or a percentage. You cannot specify both
values.
Cumulative - Select to apply the charge/discount to the record after all other
charges/discounts have been applied.
Include - Select to always include extra charges and discounts.
If the installation parameter EXTCHG is set to Y, the system always includes
extra charges and discounts; therefore, Include is selected and protected. If EXTCHG is
set to M, Include is updateable. If EXTCHG is set to N, Include is unselected and
protected.
7. Click Submit.
To delete a charge/discount, select the charge/discount to delete, and then click
Delete Charge/Discount. The system deletes the record and updates the Extra
Charges/Discounts list.
8. Click Close.

Creating assets for purchase order items
Order parts tracked by asset that are not yet defined in the database. Create new asset
records and associate them with purchase order items. The system only requires that you
create assets for purchase order items if the installation parameter ASSETASS is set to P.
Define an asset for each individual part. For example, associate three assets with the order
line if the ordered quantity is three. You cannot set the order status to Ready for printing on
the Purchase Orders form until you associate all parts tracked by asset.
To create assets for purchase order items:
1. Select Purchasing > Assets for PO.
2. Specify this information:
Purchase Order-Line - Specify the purchase order and line number for which to create
assets. The system automatically populates PO Org., Requisition, Store, Supplier,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

530 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Part, Order Qty., and Price.
You must create an asset for the total quantity of the asset-parts you order. For
example, if the Order Qty. is 2, you must create only two asset lines. You cannot create
more than two assets. If you create less than two assets, the purchase order cannot be
approved.
3. Click Add Asset.
If the ASSETASS installation parameter is set to R, you can add an asset if the
purchase order has a status of Unfinished, Ready for Printing, or Approved. If the
ASSETASS installation parameter is set to P, you can only add an asset if the purchase
order has a status of Unfinished.
4. Specify this information:
Asset ID - Specify a code identifying the asset, and then specify a description of the
asset in the adjacent field. If you select an existing asset, the system automatically
populates the asset ID description, Department, and Asset Org.
If you do not specify an asset ID and the AUTOANUM installation parameter is
set to YES, the system automatically generates an asset number after you save the
record. You may also select an existing asset ID with a status of Awaiting Purchase.
When you select an existing asset ID, the system automatically populates the asset ID
description, Type, Asset Org., and Department.
Type - Specify the type of the asset.
Asset Org. - Specify the organization of the asset.
Department - Specify the department responsible for the asset.
5. Click Submit.
To remove an asset, select the asset to remove, and then click Remove Asset.

Adding service details to purchase orders
Add service details to purchase orders. Create a service line for a set quantity and certain
number of hours and at a defined price and rate.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

531 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You can only add service details to a purchase order if the status of the purchase
order is Unfinished. You can only modify service details if the service line status is Unfinished.
If the installation parameter POCURR is set to NO, the system copies the currency of the
purchase order header to all purchase order lines and protects the Currency. The currency of
the service lines must match the currency of the purchase order header. However, if the
installation parameter POCURR is set to YES, the currency of the service lines may be
different than the currency on the purchase order header.
If you have a preset monetary purchasing limit for specifying purchase orders, you cannot
save any amount that exceeds your limit.
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase order to which to add service details, and then click the Services
tab. The system automatically populates Type, Status, the currency, and Due Date.
3. Click Add Service Line.
4. Specify this information:
Type - Select one of these service details options:

Option

Description

Fixed Price or Hours from
Service

Select if the service line references a work order
activity that is flagged for external service. If you
select Fixed Price or Hours from Service, you must
specify a Work Order-Activity or create a work order
or work order activity.

Contractor Hire

Select if the service line will be completed by
contract. If you select Contractor Hire, you must
specify a Trade. You cannot specify a Work OrderActivity if you select Contractor Hire.

Status - Select the status of the service line.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

532 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Once you change the Status of the service to a value other than Unfinished and
the status of the purchase order header is Accepted, Canceled, or Rejected, you
cannot change the status back to Unfinished.
• If you try to change the line status of the service to unfinished (U) from a previous
status of canceled (C) or rejected (R) when the status of the header is unfinished
and the Work Order-Activity is associated to another PO line, the system displays
an error.
• If the service line is associated with a work order/activity with a project-budget, you
must be an approver for the project-budget to approve the service line. However, if
there are no users listed on the Authorizations page of the Projects form, every
user can approve the line.
Requisition-Line - Specify a requisition and line to add services to the service line
from an existing service requisition.

• If you manually specify a Requisition, the system automatically populates the line
number if there is only one line that meets the lookup requirements on the
requisition and if the line is valid. If there are multiple lines that meet these criteria
on the requisition, the system leaves the field null.
• If the selected Requisition–Line contains parts related to a multiple equipment
work order, then the system populates Work Order–Activity, Equipment,
Equipment Org., and Related Work Order from the requisition/line.
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order number and activity if the service
line is designated for external service. If there is no work order or activity assigned
to the service line, click Create Work Order/Activity. The system creates a new
work order number and/or activity. Modify the work order on the Work Orders form,
and then modify the activity on the Activities tab of the Work Orders form.
If you manually specify a Work Order-Activity, the system automatically
populates the line number if there is only one line that meets the lookup
requirements on the work order/activity and if the line is valid. If there are multiple
lines that meet these criteria on the work order/activity, the system leaves the field

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

533 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

null.
You can only add service details to a purchase order that is associated with a work
order-activity with a status of Completed.
You cannot create a multiple equipment work order on the Services page;
however, if the selected Work Order–Activity is a multiple equipment work order,
the system enables Equipment and it is required.
Job - Specify the job
Equipment - Choose one of these options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Specify a specific equipment to which to distribute the cost of the service.
• Specify All Equipment to evenly distribute the cost of the service to each
equipment record on the work order.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to distribute the cost of the service to the
equipment on the work order header only.
When associating an order line with a multiple equipment work order, the
system copies the purchase order line to the parent multiple equipment work order
activity only. The system does not populate the purchase order line for the related
work order activities.
Trade - Specify a trade if the service will be contracted.
Task Plan - Specify a task if the service will be contracted. The system
automatically populates Trade, Hours Requested, Price, and the currency.
Hours Requested - Specify the number of hours required to perform the service.
Price - Specify the cost of the service, and then specify the currency in the
adjacent field.
If the POCURR installation parameter is set to YES, you can change the
currency.
Due Date - Specify the date by which the service must be complete.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

534 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Tax Code - Specify the tax code associated with the service.
Freeze Rate - Select to freeze the exchange rate throughout the purchase order
approval process.
If you do not select Freeze Rate, the system updates the exchange rate
when you approve the purchase order.
5. Click Submit.

• To delete a service line, select the service line to delete, and then click Delete
Service Line. You can only delete service lines from a purchase order if the status
of the purchase order header is Unfinished.
• Click Add/Edit Comments to add comments to the language.

Associating clauses with purchase orders
Include contract clauses in purchase orders. For example, state that for each day the
contractor finishes ahead of schedule, he or she receives a bonus. Set up contract clauses
before associating them with purchase orders.
To associate clauses with purchase orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase order for which to associate clauses, and then click the Clauses
tab.
3. Click Add Clause.
You can only access the Clauses tab and add or delete a clause if the
purchase order has a status of Unfinished.
4. Specify this information:
Order Clause - Specify a predefined ISO clause or a user-defined clause. You can
associate multiple clauses with a purchase order. The system automatically populates
Description.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

535 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.
To remove a clause, select the clause to remove, and then click Remove
Clause.

Copying purchase orders
The copy purchase order feature copies a purchase order, including all details. To copy
purchase orders:
1. Create a purchase order. See Creating purchase order headers.
2. Right-click anywhere on the Purchase Orders form, and then select Copy Purchase
Order.
3. Specify this information:
New PO Description - Specify a description for the new purchase order.
4. Select the record types to copy, and then click Submit. The system copies all purchase
order details to the new purchase order.
Some exceptions apply to the header, service, part, and comment details
copied.
The system does not copy Status because all copied purchase orders are reset to
Status Unfinished.
Select Use the Parts Catalog Price if no Contract Price Exists to indicate the prices
will be pulled from Parts Catalog if available.

Viewing documents associated to a purchase order
View an associated document, add or remove a document association, and create or upload
a new document as necessary. You may also associate documents to entities that do not
have a Documents tab and view documents from related sources.
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase order for which to view associated documents, and then click the
Documents List tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

536 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Choose one of these options as necessary:

Option

Description

To view of edit a document

Click View/Edit Document. Follow steps 4-5.

To associate a document to an
entity

Click Add Document. Follow steps 4-5.

To create or upload a document Click Create/Upload Document. See Uploading
documents to the application.

4. Specify this information:
Document - Specify the document to view or edit. The system automatically populates
Document Description.
Print with Report - Select to print the document with the purchase order report.
5. Click Save.
To remove or modify the document link, click Remove Document Link.

Viewing open repairs for purchase orders
View information about assets associated with purchase orders that are listed as needing
repair. This tab will only display details when the associated PO Line has not been fully
received
To view open repairs for purchase orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase order for which to view open repairs, and then click the Open
Repairs tab.
3. View the assets needing repair.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

537 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Viewing transactions for purchase orders
View receipt and return transactions for the selected purchase order.
To view transactions for purchase orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase order for which to view transactions, and then click the
Transactions tab.
3. View the transactions information.

Viewing tracking for purchase orders
View tracking information for the selected purchase order. Tracking information is available
only for purchase orders that have been transmitted to iProcure, and all information displayed
on the page is from iProcure.
1. Select Purchasing > Purchase Orders.
2. Select the purchase order for which to view tracking, and then click the Tracking tab.
3. View the tracking information.

Viewing purchase order history
View the purchase order histories of purchase orders using the PO Revision History form.
The PO Revision History form enables you to select a specific purchase order and view the
purchase order history for the current revision and all previous revisions of the purchase
order.
The PO Revision History form displays the same information and includes the same tabs as
the Purchase Orders form.
To view purchase order history:
1. Select Purchasing > PO Revision History.
2. Select the purchase order for which to view history, and then click the Record View,
Parts, Services, or Clauses tabs to view different pages containing specific information
related to the purchase order history. The system displays the corresponding page. See

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

538 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the following table for details about the information displayed on each page of the PO
Revision History form.

Tab

Description

List View

Displays a list of all purchase orders

Record View

Displays detailed header information for the selected purchase
order

Parts

Displays detailed information about parts on purchase order
lines
You can also view comments and extra charges or
discounts associated with the part. Click Comments to view
comments. Click Extra Charges/Discounts to view extra
charges or discounts.

Services

Displays any services added to the purchase order
You can also view comments associated with the
service. Click Comments to view comments.

Clauses

Displays any contract clauses included on the purchase order

Updating purchase orders
Update purchase order details in a batch.
To update purchase orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Process > PO Update.
2. Run the default dataspy. The system displays a list of purchase orders with a system
status of "Unfinished" or "Awaiting Approval" in the editable grid.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

539 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Select the purchase orders to update and make changes to the following fields as
necessary:
Description - Specify the description of the updates.
Status - Update the status of the purchase order.
Buyer - Specify the buyer responsible for the purchase order.
Class - Specify the class of the purchase order.
Default Approver - Specify the employee responsible for approving the purchase order.
4. Click Update POs. To print purchase order updates, select the purchase orders to print, and then
click Print Selected PO.

Creating and using blanket orders
Use blanket orders to order a fixed number of items for a predetermined price or over a
specific period of time. First, create blanket order headers, and then add line items. You can
generate purchase orders from a blanket order, associate clauses with blanket orders, and
set up user authorization for blanket order releases. When satisfied with the blanket order,
approve the blanket order by changing the status to Approved. You must have authorization
to create or update blanket orders. You must be a buyer for your organization with sufficient
purchasing limit permissions to create blanket orders.

Creating blanket order headers
Create blanket order headers.
1. Select Purchasing > Blanket Orders.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the blanket order belongs if you use
multi-organization security. The system automatically populates Date Created.
Blanket Order - Specify a description of the blanket order in the adjacent field. The

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

540 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system assigns an order number after you save the record.
Status - Select the status value of the blanker order.
Your authorization level determines the values available for Status.
You must add line items to the blanket order before you approve it. After lines are added
to the blanket order, the system populates Remaining Value.
Store - Specify the storeroom to which to deliver parts.
Buyer - Specify the buyer responsible for the blanket order.
Maximum Value - Specify the maximum value for the blanket order. The system
displays the total monetary amount released against the blanket order to date in
Released Value. You cannot update this field.
The Maximum Value of the header may be less than the total of all lines, but it
cannot be less than the Maximum Value or Price of an individual line.
Class - Specify the class of the blanket order.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the dates between which purchase orders can be
generated from the blanket order. The system displays the number of purchase orders
released from this blanket order in Number Released. You cannot update this field.
Supplier - Specify the supplier from whom to order the parts.
Currency - Specify the currency you use to purchase the parts.
Exchange Rate - Specify the current exchange rate.
You can update Currency if there is an exchange rate defined for the currency
and if the installation parameter POCURR is set to YES. If the installation parameter
POCURR is set to NO, you can update the currency, and the system automatically
populates Exchange Rate with 1. You can update Exchange Rate if the EXRTUPDT
installation parameter is set to YES.
Approve Order - Select to automatically approve a purchase order generated from the
blanket order.
4. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

541 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Click Create Complete PO to create a purchase order from the blanket order.
You cannot delete a blanket order. If you no longer need the blanket order, change the
Status to canceled. Once canceled, you cannot change the status of a blanket order.

Creating purchase orders from a blanket order
After you approve the blanket order, create a new purchase order from the blanket order.
You cannot create a purchase order if the system date is outside the range of blanket
order Start Date and End Date; if the Release Value of the new purchase order will be
greater than the Remaining Value; if the Currency for the blanket order is different than the
currency on parts lines; if the purchase order value exceeds your purchase order limit
permissions; if you are not an authorized user with specific permissions to crate purchase
orders; or if the purchase order value exceeds your authorization for purchase order approval.
To create purchase orders from a blanket order:
1. Select Purchasing > Blanket Orders.
2. Select the blanket order from which to create a purchase order, and then click the
Record View tab.
3. Click Create Complete PO. The system automatically populates and protects Store if
you specified a store on the Blanket Order Record View page.
4. Specify this information:
Originator - Specify the employee requesting the blanket purchase order.
Store - Specify the storeroom to which to deliver parts.
5. Click Submit.

Adding part details to blanket orders
Set up items in the parts catalog before adding them to blanket orders.
You can only add part details to a blanket order if the status of the blanket order is
Unfinished. You can only modify part details if the part line status is Unfinished.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

542 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parts tracked as kit cannot be added to blanket orders.
To add part details to blanket orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Blanket Orders.
2. Select the blanket order to which to add part details, and then click the Parts tab. The
system automatically populates the price currency and Qty. per UOP.
You can unhide Line and manually enter a new line number. Line sequences
increase by the number entered for the installation parameter INCRLINO.
3. Click Add Part Line.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part with which to associate the blanket order. The system
automatically populates the part description, UOM, and Price.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Line - Specify the line number of the blanket order.
Purchase Qty. (UOP) - Specify the amount and UOP in which the supplier provides the
part.
Price - Specify the cost of a single part and the currency you use to purchase the part in
the adjacent field.
Qty. per UOP - Specify the conversion factor.
For example, if the supplier's UOM for the part is a case of 12 parts but your
UOM for the part is each, Purchase Qty. (UOP) will be 1 for one case, but the system
will issue and measure12 parts (1 case = 12 parts). If you enter 2 for the Purchase Qty.
(UOP), the system uses Qty. per UOP to update the number of parts measured and
issued to 24.
Exchange Rate - Specify the current exchange rate.
5. Choose one of these options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

543 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Option

Description

If the blanket order is for a
maximum number of items

Specify the number of items for Maximum Qty.

If the blanket order is for a total Specify the amount for Maximum Value.
monetary amount

You cannot enter a Maximum Value that exceeds the Maximum Value on the
blanket order header.
6. Specify this information:
Inspection Required - Select for inspections to be required.
Commodity - Specify the commodity associated with the blanket order.
Supp. Catalog Reference - Specify the reference number of the part, if the part is
located in the supplier’s catalog.
7. Click Submit.

Adding service details to blanket orders
Add service details to blanket orders. Create a service line for a set quantity and certain
number of hours and at a defined price and rate.
You can only add service details to a blanket order if the status of the blanket order
header is Unfinished. You can only modify service details if the blanket order status is
Unfinished.
If the installation parameter POCURR is set to NO, the system copies the currency of the
blanket order header to all blanket order lines and protects Currency. The currency of the
service lines must match the currency of the blanket order header. However, if the installation
parameter POCURR is set to YES, the currency of the service lines may be different than the
currency on the blanket order header. Contact your system administrator for more
information.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

544 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To add service details to blanket orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Blanket Orders.
2. Select the blanket order to which to add service details, and then click the Services tab.
The system automatically populates Line, Type, Status, the currency, and Exchange
Rate.
3. Click Add Service Line.
4. Specify this information:
Line - Specify a line number.
Type - Select one of the service detail options:

Option

Description

Fixed Price or Hours from
Service

Select if the service line references a work order
activity that is flagged for external service.
Hours Requested for a line type of Fixed
Price must be 1.

Contractor Hire

Select if the service line will be completed by
contract. If you select Contractor Hire, you must
specify a Trade.

Trade - Specify a trade if the service will be contracted.
Price - Specify the cost of the service. The system automatically populates the currency
of the price.
If the POCURR installation parameter is set to YES, you can change the
currency. Contact your system administrator for more information.
Exchange Rate - Specify the exchange rate for the currency.
Task Qty. - Specify the amount of units of service, and then specify the unit of measure

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

545 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

in the adjacent field.
Task - Specify a task if the service will be contracted. The system automatically
populates Price, the currency, and the unit of measure. If the Task is associated with a
Trade on the Task record, the system automatically populates Trade. Also, if Hours
Requested has not been specified, the system automatically populates Hours
Requested from the Task record’s Estimated Hours.
Hours Requested - Specify the number of hours required to perform the service.
Delivery Address - Specify the address to which to deliver any needed items.
Maximum Hours - Specify the maximum amount of hours allowed for the service.
Maximum Hours must be greater than or equal to Hours Requested.
Maximum Value - Specify the maximum monetary value allowed for the service.
You must specify either Maximum Hours or Maximum Value. You cannot
specify both values. The Maximum Value of the line must be less than or equal to the
Maximum Value of the header.
5. Click Submit.The system automatically populates Number Released with the number
of times the service line has been released by the blanket order, Released Hours with
the total number of released hours for the service line released to the blanket order,
Released Value with the total monetary value of units released by the blanket order,
and Last Order with the number of the last purchase order that was released for the
service line.
To delete a service line, select the service line to delete, and then click Delete
Service Line. You can only delete service lines from a blanket order if the status of the
blanket order header is Unfinished.

Associating clauses with blanket orders
Associate existing clauses with blanket orders so that the printed purchase order includes the
contract clauses.
You can only associate clauses with a blanket order with a system status of
Unfinished.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

546 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To associate clauses with blanket orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Blanket Orders.
2. Select the blanket order with which to associate clauses, and then click the Clauses
tab.
3. Click Add Clause.
4. Specify this information:
Clause - Specify the contract clause to add to the blanket order. The system
automatically populates the clause description and Organization.
5. Click Submit.
To remove a clause, select the clause to remove, and then click Remove
Clause. You can only remove clauses from a blanket order with a system status of
Unfinished.

Associating purchase order terms with blanket orders
Associate existing purchase order terms with blanket orders to ensure correct purchase order
activities.
Depending on your system configuration, Ship Via, Payment Terms, Freight
Terms, FOB Point, and Payment Method may not be displayed. Contact your system
administrator for additional information.
To associate purchase order terms with blanket orders:
1. Select Purchasing > Blanket Orders.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the information as necessary to create a blanket order.
You must enter Supplier before clicking Default Terms.
4. Click Default Terms. The system automatically populates Ship Via, Payment Terms,
Freight Terms, FOB Point, and Payment Method with the values specified on the
Suppliers form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

547 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Specify this information:
Ship Via - Specify the manner in which the supplier ships the specific item.
Payment Terms - Specify the manner in which the supplier is paid for the purchase.
Freight Terms - Specify the manner in which the freight charges are paid and who pays
them.
FOB Point - Specify where you take possession of the item.
Payment Method - Specify the method used to pay the supplier.
6. Click Save Record.

Defining blanket order user authorizations
Define which users can create purchase orders from blanket orders. Only users on the list of
authorized users can create purchase orders from blanket orders. If the Users list is empty,
then all users with the appropriate screen permissions (based on the user group of the user)
will be able to create purchase orders from blanket orders.
To define blanket order user authorizations:
1. Select Purchasing > Blanket Orders.
2. Select the blanket order for which to define user authorizations, and then click the
Users tab.
3. Click Add User.
4. Specify this information:
User - Specify each user who can issue releases against the blanket order. The system
automatically populates the user description.
5. Click Submit.
To remove a user, select the user to remove, and then click Remove User.

Creating partial order blanket orders

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

548 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create a partial order blanket order and indicate the quantities of the part or service to be
added for each generated purchase order line.
You can only create partial order blanket orders when the blanket order has a system
status of Approved and when there are no line-level errors.
1. Select Purchasing > Blanket Orders.
2. Select the blanket order from which to create a partial order, and then click the Partial
Order tab. The system automatically populates Maximum Value, Released Value, and
Remaining Value.
3. Specify this information:
Select - Select to add the blanket order line item to the purchase order.
Purchase Qty. - Specify the quantity of parts/hours of service to be purchased.
Work Order - Specify the work order to associate with the blanket order line.
Activity - Specify the activity to associate with the blanket order line.
If the line type is SF (Fixed price) or ST (Hours from service), then Work Order
and Activity are required.
Equipment - Choose one of these options if the work order is a multiple equipment
work order:
• Specify a specific equipment to which to distribute the cost.
• Specify All Equipment to evenly distribute the cost to each equipment record on
the work order.
The system does not allow you to select All Equipment for parts on the
blanket order line that are tracked by asset.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to distribute the cost to the equipment on the work
order header only.
4. Click Create Purchase Order.
You must select at least one blanket order line item to create a purchase order.
You cannot create a purchase order that exceeds your preset monetary limits for

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

549 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

creating and approving purchase orders. You cannot create a purchase order from a
blanket order with service lines without a work order.

Recording invoice vouchers
Record invoice vouchers received from suppliers to verify invoices against purchase orderlines and received quantities. Create credit and debit notes to apply credits to invoices and
inventory. Create non-purchase order invoice vouchers to record invoices for items or
services received without associated purchase orders.

Creating regular invoice vouchers
Regular invoice vouchers are used to create a record of a supplier’s bill. Creating invoice
vouchers creates a business process by which suppliers are paid for parts and services.
Regular invoice vouchers verify that the cost of the invoice lines matches the cost of the
associated order lines within a specified range of tolerance. The range of tolerance can be
based on an absolute dollar amount or on a percentage, as defined on the Organizations
form. Specify Match Tolerance Absolute, Match Tolerance%, and Match Quantity Tolerance %
to establish the amount or percentage allowed as the difference between the purchase orderline cost and the invoice voucher line cost when matching line costs. Upon approval of the
invoice voucher, the system captures the price, freezes the exchange rate if foreign
currencies are used, and updates prices.
Occasionally suppliers’ prices for items vary, causing discrepancies between an invoice
voucher and projected costs for that invoice.
Set the MATCHAPP installation parameter to YES to enable the system to
automatically assign the Approved status to vouchers matched by the invoice process.
Contact your system administrator for more information.

Creating invoice voucher headers
Create invoice voucher headers for purchased materials.
You cannot delete an invoice voucher unless the status is Unfinished or if it is an
invoice voucher with lines associated.
1. Select Purchasing > Invoice Vouchers.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

550 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the invoice voucher belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Invoice Voucher - Specify a description of the invoice voucher in the adjacent field. The
system automatically generates a voucher number when you save the record.
Registration Date - Specify the date of the registration of the invoice voucher.
Registration Date cannot be before Invoice Date.
Status - Select the status of the invoice voucher.
If lines have not been added to the invoice voucher, then the status of the
invoice voucher can only be Unfinished or Cancelled. This does not apply to Non-PO
invoice vouchers.
Invoice vouchers with the type Invoice can only be approved after matching.
Debit Note or Credit Note invoice vouchers can only be approved if the Original Invoice
Voucher is approved and if the invoice voucher does not exceed your approval limits.
If you update the status of the invoice voucher to Unfinished, every associated line will
reset to Not Matched.
Type - Select the invoice voucher type. Choose one of these options:

Option

Description

Credit note

Select to indicate a credit has been added to the
invoice voucher.

Debit note

Select to indicate a debit has been added to the
invoice voucher.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

551 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Invoice

Select to indicate the invoice voucher is for an
invoice.

Unmatched Cost

Select to indicate the invoice voucher is for an
unmatched cost.
If selected, the system will update the Lines
Subtotal, Tax Amount, and Voucher Total by the
corresponding values from the Unmatched Costs
tab.
If selected, the Lines tab is protected.

Non-PO

Select to indicate the invoice voucher is a bill from a
supplier that should not have lines associated such
as a utility bill.

Supplier Invoice - Specify the supplier’s invoice number.
Invoice Date - Specify the supplier’s invoice date.
Supplier - Specify the supplier from whom the invoice has been received. The system
automatically populates Supplier Org., Currency, and Exchange Rate.
To specify a value in Supplier and Purchase Order, the supplier on the
Purchase Order must be the same as the value specified in Supplier.
Currency - Specify the currency used for the invoice voucher.
Exchange Rate - Specify the exchange rate for the currency.
Class - Specify the class of the voucher. The system automatically populates Class
Org.
Return - Select to indicate a return.
Original Invoice Voucher - Specify the original voucher. The system automatically
populates Original Supplier Invoice

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

552 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Invoice vouchers with the types Credit Note or Debit Note must specify an
Original Invoice Voucher. If the original voucher is an unmatched cost invoice the
Credit or Debit note lines are restricted to the lines on the original voucher.
Purchase Order - Specify the purchase order from which to create voucher lines.
You can choose to not specify a value in Supplier and instead only specify a
Purchase Order. This restricts the lines of the invoice voucher to only the lines for the
purchase order on the invoice voucher header. Therefore, Supplier, Supplier Org.,
Currency, and Exchange Rate will populate from the supplier of the purchase order.
You cannot specify a Purchase Order for Non-PO invoice vouchers.
Payment Due Date - Specify the date by which the invoice voucher is to be paid.
Payment Due Date cannot be before Registration Date.
Pay To - Specify the supplier to whom to pay the invoice voucher.
Pay To must be the same supplier or an associated child or parent of the
supplier that was specified in Supplier.
Paid Date - Specify the date on which the invoice was actually paid.
4. Click Save Record.
After the invoice voucher is approved, the system displays Approved By, and
the purchase order line for each invoice voucher line is updated with the invoice voucher
line’s invoice quantity and invoice value.
After costs have been added to the invoice voucher, the system displays Voucher Total.

Adding line items to invoice vouchers
You cannot add line items to the invoice voucher unless the invoice voucher Type is
Invoice, Debit Note, or Credit Note. Supplier is specified on the invoice voucher header, and
Purchase Order is not specified on the invoice voucher header.
The Assign GL Codes, Extra Charges/Discounts, and Match hyperlinks are protected
unless the invoice voucher type is Invoice.
To add line items to invoice vouchers:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

553 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Purchasing > Invoice Vouchers.
2. Select the invoice voucher to which to add line items, and then click the Lines tab.
3. Click Add Invoice Voucher Line. The system automatically populates Invoice Voucher
Line and Status.
4. Specify this information:
Invoice Voucher Line - Specify a line number.
Purchase Order-Line - Specify the purchase order and line number to invoice. The
system automatically populates Qty. Invoiced, Qty. Returned, Price, Currency, Tax
Code 1, Tax Code 2, Exchange Rate, Type, Work Order-Activity, Cost Code,
Part/Trade, Ordered, Received, and Invoiced.
If the work order associated with the selected Purchase Order-Line is a multiple
equipment work order, then the system populates the Equipment, Equipment Org.,
and Related Work Order from the information on the purchase order line. The system
distributes any invoice differences as defined by the purchase order line.
Qty. Invoiced - Specify the amount to be invoiced.
Qty. Returned - Specify the amount to be returned.
Price - Specify the unit price for parts or the hourly rate for services. The system
automatically populates the currency of the price.
Tax Code 1 and Tax Code 2 - Specify any additional taxes to apply to the line. The
system adds the tax charges to the total for the invoice voucher line and displays the
updated totals in Tax Amount and Line Total.
Tax codes do not affect the purchase order-line record.
Exchange Rate - Specify the exchange rate for the currency
5. Click Match to simulate the voucher match process without actually changing the status
of the header. This action verifies the following information:
• Absolute tolerance and percentage have not been exceeded.
• The voucher quantity does not exceed a specified percentage above the amount

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

554 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

ordered.
• The quantity invoiced does not exceed the quantity received.
6. Click Submit. The system automatically populates Subtotal, Extra
Charges/Discounts, Adjusted Costs, Tax Amount, and Line Total.
You cannot delete an invoice voucher line unless the status of the invoice
voucher header is Unfinished.

Creating costs for invoice vouchers
Create and edit costs for the invoice voucher header. The Extra Charges/Discounts button
on the Lines page of the Invoice Voucher form applies costs to specific invoice voucher
lines. The Costs page applies costs to the invoice voucher header.
You cannot apply costs to the invoice voucher unless the status of the header is
Unfinished.
To create costs for invoice vouchers:
1. Select Purchasing > Invoice Vouchers.
2. Select the invoice voucher for which to apply costs, and then click the Costs tab.
3. Click Add Cost.
4. Specify this information:
Type - Specify the type of additional charge or discount to apply to the invoice voucher.
The system automatically populates the type description. If you specify Pre-tax extra
charge/discount (PRT), the system enables Tax Code 1.
Amount - Specify the amount of the extra charge or the discount to apply to the invoice
voucher.
You must specify a negative value to indicate it is a discount.
Accounting Flexfield Desc. - Specify the accounting flexfield description. The system
automatically populates GL Code.
Tax Code 1 - Specify the tax rate to be applied to the cost amount. If you specify Tax

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

555 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Code 1, the system enables Tax Code 2.
The system calculates Tax Amount and Line Total based on the selected tax
code.
Tax Code 2 - Specify the second tax rate to be applied to the cost amount.
If you specify Tax Code 2, the system applies each tax and then adds the
amounts to calculate Tax Amount and Line Total.
5. Click Submit.

Adding unmatched costs to invoice vouchers
Add lines for contracted labor or equipment to an invoice voucher. This tab records costs that
are not matched or otherwise validated. These lines do not have associated receipt
transactions
The invoice voucher record must have Type specified as Unmatched Cost.
To add unmatched costs to invoice vouchers:
1. Select Purchasing > Invoice Vouchers.
2. Select the invoice voucher to which to add unmatched cost lines, and then click the
Unmatched Cost Line tab.
3. Specify this information:
Description - Specify a description for the unmatched cost.
Line Type - Specify the line type for the unmatched cost.
A Line Type of Service references ancillary charges for outside contracted labor,
typically fixed price items including per diem charges and equipment rental fees. A Line
Type of Tool Cost references charges for corporate owned tools or equipment.
Purchase Order - Line - Specify a purchase order - line for the unmatched cost.
Tool - Optionally, associate a tool with the unmatched cost. This field is required if Line
Type is specified as Tool Cost.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

556 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Hours - Specify the number of hours associated with the unmatched cost.
Hourly Rate - Specify the hourly rate for the unmatched cost.
Tax - Optionally, specify a tax amount for the unmatched cost.
Work Order - Activity - Specify a work order - activity to associate with the unmatched
cost.
Only activities marked as Hired Labor are valid.
Trade - Optionally, specify a trade to associate with the unmatched cost.
4. Click Submit.
When the header invoice voucher record is Approved, a record is created for
the associated Work Order - Activity on the Additional Costs tab. This record has a
Cost Type equal to the Line Type. For example, if the Unmatched Costs line has Line
Type set to Hired Labor, an Additional Costs record is created with Cost Type of Hired
Labor

Defining utility bills for invoice vouchers
Create and edit utility bill information for the invoice voucher header. The Utility Bills page
applies costs to the invoice voucher header and allows you to calculate a daily rate for
utility/energy consumption.
To define utility bills for invoice vouchers:
1. Select Purchasing > Invoice Vouchers.
2. Select a non-PO invoice voucher for which to apply utility bills, and then click the Utility
Bills tab.
3. Click Add Utility Bill. The system automatically populates Line.
4. Specify this information:
Utility Bill Source - Specify the utility bill source object. Utility Bill Source is the level
at which the utility bill is recorded (usually building level). The system automatically
populates Utility Bill Source Org. and UOM.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

557 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Meter - Specify the meter that is attached to the Utility Bill Level Object. The system
automatically populates Meter Org.
Commodity - Specify the commodity that represents the type of energy being
consumed such as electricity or gas.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure of the usage of the utility bill.
Cycle - Specify the cycle for the utility bill.
Rate Code - Specify the code of the rate to charge for the utility bill.
Correction Factor - Specify the number for the correction factor. Correction Factor is a
value the utility company sets to ensure proper usage calculation. This value will be
used as a multiplier when calculating utility bill rates.
From Date - Specify the begin date of the billing period. The system automatically
populates To Date with the same date.
End Date - Specify the end date of the billing period.
Start Reading - Specify the reading at the start of the utility bill period.
If you clear Start Reading, the system automatically clears End Reading and
vice versa. It will not adjust Usage based on edits to either field.
End Reading - Specify the reading at the end of the utility bill period.
If you specify End Reading when Usage is null and Start Reading is not null,
the system automatically populates Usage = End Reading – Start Reading.
Usage - Specify the usage for the utility bill period. If Start Reading is not null when you
specify Usage, the system automatically populates End Reading = Start Reading
+ Usage.
Total Bill Amount - Specify the cost amount for the utility bill period. The system
automatically populates Currency.
Multiplier - Specify a multiplier to calculate usage from the meter reading. This value
will be used as a multiplier when calculating utility bill rates.
Meter Type - Select the type of meter for the utility bill period.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

558 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Option

Description

Energy and Demand

Measures KWh and kW

Reactive Energy

Measures kVARh to bill power factor less than 95%

Energy, Demand, and Power
Factor

Measures all KWh, kW, and kVARh

Peak Demand - Specify the peak demand for the utility bill period. The system
automatically populates the peak demand UOM.
Billed Demand - Specify the demand rate billed for the utility bill period.
Power Factor (%) - Specify the power factor percentage of the commodity for the utility
bill period.
Service Charge - Specify the monthly service charge for the utility bill period. The
system automatically populates Currency.
Unit Charge - Specify the unit charge or rate being charged for the rate code for the
utility bill period. The system automatically populates Currency.
Load Factor - Specify the load factor for the utility bill period.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing invoice voucher line item information
To view invoice voucher line item information:
1. Select Purchasing > Overview > Invoice Lines per Buyer.
2. Run the default Dataspy or create a personalized Dataspy to filter results by user.
Unlike other forms within the system, you must first run a Dataspy to view
invoice voucher line item information.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

559 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. View the invoice voucher line item information.

Viewing utility invoice audit messages
View a list of audit messages that were encountered during the utility invoice audit process.
To view utility invoice audit messages:
1. Select Purchasing > Invoice Vouchers.
2. Select the invoice voucher for which to view audit messages, and then click the Utility
Audit tab.
3. View the utility invoice audit messages.

Booking invoice allocations
Book invoice allocations to assign costs to work orders invoice vouchers and invoice voucher
lines.
1. Select Purchasing > Invoice Allocations.
2. Select the invoice number for which to book an allocation.
Total Unallocated Amount and Qty. to Allocate are automatically populated.Total
Unallocated Amount is calculated based on the following formula:
Total Unallocated Amount = Unallocated Qty. x Unallocated Unit
Cost
3. Specify this information:
Qty. to Allocate - Update the quantity to allocate if necessary.
If the Qty. to Allocate specified is greater than 0 but less than or equal to the
Unallocated Qty., then the Unallocated Qty. will be recalculated as the difference
between the existing Unallocated Qty. and the Qty. to Allocate.
If you specify a negative number for the Qty. to Allocate, then a correction transaction
of type INVA is created, and the absolute value of the negative value is added to
Unallocated Qty. for the correction. For example, if you specify -2 as the Qty. to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

560 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Allocate, then 2 will be added to the Unallocated Qty.
The INVADAYS installation parameter determines the number of days that invoice
allocations can be booked for a completed work order. The work orders for which the
completion date exceeds the number of days specified by the setting of the INVADAYS
installation parameter are not displayed.
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order and activity for which to book the invoice
allocation.
If you select a work order with a system work order type of IS, or Direct issue,
then Activity is cleared and protected. No Activity is required for the work order type
IS.
If you manually specify a Work Order of a type other than IS, the Activity is
automatically populated from the work order if there is only one activity on the work
order.
Search for all transactions associated with a multiple equipment work order by defining
a Quick Filter on the Work Order lookup using Parent Work Order as part of the filter
criteria.
4. Click Submit. An invoice allocation transaction is created against the work order.

• Upon saving the invoice allocation, the system deactivates the invoice allocation if
the Unallocated Qty. is zero as a result of the allocation.
• To activate an inactive invoice line, select the invoice line to activate, and then
click Activate Line. The line is activated and Active is selected.
• To inactivate an invoice line, select the invoice line to inactivate, and then click
Inactivate Line. The line is activated and Active is cleared. Qty. to
Allocate,Work Order, and Activity are all cleared and protected for the selected
invoice line.

Defining requests for quotations
Requests for quotations (RFQs) are records of parts and services that are presented to
suppliers to solicit bids on pricing. Define request for quotation information before submitting

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

561 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

requests to suppliers.
To define requests for quotations:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Click New Record. The system automatically populates Currency, Requested
Response Date, Created By, and Requested Date.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the request for quotation belongs if
you use multi-organization security.
RFQ description - Specify a description of the request for quotation. Specify the RFQ
Details.
Status - Choose one of these options:
• Unfinished
• Ready to Send
• Sent to Supplier
When Status is set to Sent to Supplier, the system creates quotation
records for each supplier on the Suppliers page and copies the parts and
services to the Parts and Services pages, respectively, for the quotation record.
• Receiving Quotations
System automatically assigns this Status when the first quotation is
updated with pricing and its Status is changed to Received.
• All Quotations Received
• Awarded
If Status is set to Awarded, the system automatically populates Awarded
By and Awarded Date and then calculates cost values.
• Cancelled

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

562 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Currency - Specify the currency for the quotation.
Store - Specify the store to which the request for quotation applies.
Requested By - Specify the employee requesting quotations.
Response Date - Specify the date by which quotations should be received.
Project - Specify the project to which the request for quotation applies.
Project-Budget - Specify the project-budget to which the request for quotation
applies.
Specify either Project or Project-Budget. Both fields cannot be
populated simultaneously.
Work Order - Specify the work order associated with the request for quotation.
The system automatically populates Equipment.
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order-activity associated with the request
for quotation.
Specify either Work Order or Work Order-Activity. Both fields cannot be
populated simultaneously.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which you are requesting a quotation if
MEC work order is specified. The system automatically populates Equipment
Org. and Related Work Order.
Buyer - Specify the buyer for the request for quotation.
Delivery Address - Specify the delivery address for the request for quotation.
Class - Specify the class for the request for quotation. The system automatically
populates Class Org.
Specify the RFQ Print Options:
Individual Lines - Select to have the system create a line for each line listed.
Sum Quantities with Earliest Due Date - Select to have the system create
quotation lines for each part and each trade-task combination assigning the
earliest Due Date for the grouping.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

563 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Sum Quantities by Due Date - Select to have the system create quotation lines
for each part and trade-task combination grouping by Due Date.
Auto-print RFQ - Select to print the record automatically when Status is Sent to
Supplier. Specify the RFQ Terms.
Ship Via - Specify the ship via code for the request for quotations.
Payment Terms - Specify the payment terms for the request for quotations.
Freight Terms - Specify the freight terms for the request for quotations.
FOB Point - Specify the freight on board point for the request for quotations.
Payment Method - Specify the method of payment for the request for quotations.
Specify the e-mail Information.
Email Subject Line - Specify the e-mail subject line.
Email Body Text - Specify the e-mail body text.
4. Click Save Record.

Calculating costs for RFQs
To calculate cost values for RFQs that have Awarded lines:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to calculate costs, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Click Calculate Costs.
The system automatically populates these fields:

Field

Description

Part Lines

Count of part lines awarded on the Selection page

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

564 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Service Lines

Count of service lines awarded on the Selections page

RFQ Lines

Count of awarded lines on the Selections page

Total Tax

Total tax on the awarded RFQ Lines (Parts and Services)
on the Selections page

Total Part Value

Total price of all awarded part lines with positive part line
totals

Total Service Value

Total price of all awarded service lines on the Selections
page

Total RFQ Value

Total value based on this equation: Total Part Value
+ Total Service Value

Date Last Refreshed

Date and time calculations were refreshed

Defining clauses for RFQs
To define clauses for RFQs:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to define clauses, and then click the Clauses tab.
3. Click Add Clause.
4. Specify this information:
RFQ Clause - Specify the purchasing clause to be associated with the RFQ. The
system automatically populates the RFQ description.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

565 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Associating parts with RFQs
Associate parts with RFQs and edit a part description if the part has not been used in other
parts of the system.
The Edit Parts Description pop-up window is only available for parts with N class
designation. These are new parts created on the selected screen; parts which can have their
description changed. However, when the description is changed the part is no longer
accessible in the Edit Parts Description pop-up for editing.
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to define parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part Line.
4. Specify this information:
Manufacturer - Specify the manufacturer of the part.
Manufacturer Part Number - Specify the manufacturer part number.
Part - Specify the part. The system automatically populates Part Org., Part
Description, UOM, Inspection, Tracked by Asset, Preferred Supplier, Preferred
Supplier Org., Preferred Supplier description, and Requested Qty.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Type - Choose one of these options:
• PD (Direct Materials)
• PS (Stock Items)
• RE (External Repair)
Line - Specify the line number for the part.
Requested Qty. - Specify the number of units requested for the part.
Due Date - Specify the date the parts are due.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

566 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Delivery Address - Specify the address to which the parts should be delivered.
Inspection - Select to request a part inspection.
Track by Asset - Select to track parts.
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order and activity for which the part is
needed.
Comments - Specify any additional comments regarding the service.
5. Click Submit.
6. Optionally, to edit a part description, click Edit Parts Description. Specify the new part
description, and then click Submit.

Creating parts for RFQs
To create parts for RFQs:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to define parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part Line. The system automatically populates Line, Type, Due Date, and
Delivery Address.
4. Click Create Part.
5. Specify this information:
Part Org. - Specify the organization for which to create a part.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the part.
Requested Qty. - Specify the number of units requested for the part.
6. Click OK.

Selecting multiple parts
Select and retrieve multiple parts to be associated with an RFQ.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

567 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To select multiple parts for an RFQ:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to add multiple parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Select Parts.
4. Select the parts to add to the RFQ, and then click Submit.
Requested Quantity and Due Date can be entered on the popup or on the
Parts page.

Retrieving WO parts
To retrieve work order parts:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to retrieve parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part Line. The system automatically populates Line, Type, Due Date, and
Delivery Address.
4. Click Retrieve WO Parts.
5. Select the parts to retrieve, and then click OK.

Selecting substitute parts
To select substitute parts for RFQs:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to select substitute parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part Line. The system automatically populates Line, Type, Due Date, and
Delivery Address.
4. Click Select Substitute Part.
5. Select the part to substitute for the RFQ part, and then click OK.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

568 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Selecting items on RFQs
Select items on a request for quotation. You may award selected items on an RFQ, update
the supplier part catalog with items on quotations, create or update a requisition, or create or
update a purchase order.
To select items on RFQs:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to select items, and then click the Selection tab.
The lines displayed are the received Quotation lines associated with the RFQ.
3. Select either Parts or Services. The system displays the parts or services.
4. Select items for the RFQ, and then choose one of these options:

Option

Description

Award Items

The system awards selected items to the quotation
and others in the item group to Not Awarded.
System Status must be Undecided.
Multiple items with the same Line may not be
Awarded.

Cancel Awarded Items

The system cancels the Award status for selected
items and changes the items' System Status to
Undecided.
System Status must be Awarded.

5. Specify this information:
Update Supplier Catalog - The system updates the supplier parts catalog with data
from selected items.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

569 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Generate Requisition - The system generates a requisition for selected items.
Generate POs - The system generates purchase orders for selected items.
View Totals for All Suppliers - The system displays totals by supplier in view-only
mode.

Updating a supplier catalog
To update a supplier catalog:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to update a supplier catalog, and then click the Selection
tab.
3. Select Parts.
4. Select items for which to update the supplier catalog, and then click Update Supplier
Catalog.
5. Select the part with which to update the supplier catalog, and then click Update.
If the item type is parts, the system inserts a Parts Catalog Record for the
selected supplier.

Generating requisitions for RFQs
To generate requisitions for RFQs:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to generate a requisition, and then click the Selection tab.
3. Select either Parts or Services.
4. Select the items for which to generate a requisition, and then click Generate
Requisition.
5. Specify this information:
Create Requisition - Select to create a new requisition.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

570 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Requisition Description - Specify a description for the requisition.
Store - Specify the store to which the requisition should be issued.
Requested By - Specify the name of the employee requesting the requisition.
Default Approver - Specify the name of the employee who should approve the
requisition.
Add to Existing Requisition - Select to add items to an existing requisition.
Buyer - Specify the name of the employee purchasing the items.
Planned Part - Select to add the item to the selected WO-Activity if the item is not
already a Planned Part.
Print Requisition - Select to print the requisition to which the quotation lines have been
associated when the system generates or updates the requisition.
6. Click Generate.

Generating POs for RFQs
To generate purchase orders for RFQs:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to generate a purchase order, and then click the Selection
tab.
3. Select either Parts or Services.
4. Select the items for which to generate a purchase order, and then click Generate POs.
5. Specify this information:
Create PO - Select to create a new purchase order.
PO Description - Specify a description for the purchase order. You must enter a PO
Description if Use Quotation Description is unselected.
Store - Specify the store to which the purchase order should be issued.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

571 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Originator - Specify the name of the employee generating the PO.
Delivery Address - Specify the address to which the items should be delivered.
Use Quotation Description - Select to use the quotation description as the PO
description.
Buyer - Specify the name of the employee purchasing the items.
Add to Existing PO - Select to add items to an existing purchase order.
Planned Part - Select to add the item to the selected WO-Activity if the item is not
already a Planned Part.
Print PO - Select to print the purchase order(s) to which the quotation lines have been
associated when the system generates or updates the purchase order(s).
6. Click Generate.
The system generates a separate purchase order for each supplier.

Viewing totals by supplier
To view totals by supplier:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to view totals, and then click the Selection tab.
3. Click View Totals for All Suppliers.
4. View the totals by supplier information.

Defining suppliers for RFQs
To define suppliers for RFQs:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to define suppliers, and then click the Suppliers tab.
3. Click Add Supplier.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

572 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Supplier - Specify the supplier. The system automatically populates the supplier
description.
5. Click Save Record.

Defining services for RFQs
Define services for RFQs. The system copies values to each new part line. To define services
for RFQs:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to define services, and then click the Services tab.
3. Click Add Service Line. The system automatically populates Line, Type, and Delivery
Address.
4. Specify this information:
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order and activity for the service.
Equipment - Specify the equipment to be used for the service if work order is MEC. The
system automatically populates Equipment Org., Project-Budget, Related Work
Order, and Department.
Line - Specify the line number for the service.
Type - Choose one of these options:

Option

Description

ST (Hours From Service)

The system protects Task Plan and Job Plan, and
makes Work Order-Activity required.

SF (Fixed Price Service)

The system protects Trade and Task, sets Hours
Requested to 1 and protects the field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

573 of 2039

SH (Contractor Hire)

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system clears and protects Work Order,
Activity, Equipment, Equipment Org., Related
Work Order, Department, Project, and Budget,
makes Trade required, and makes Task optional.

Trade - Specify the trade associated with the service.
Task - Specify the task for the service. The system automatically populates Trade,
UOM, Hours Requested, and Task Qty.
Task Qty. - Specify the number of units required for the service.
Hours Requested - Specify the number of hours necessary to perform the service.
Due Date - Specify the date by which the service should be complete.
Delivery Address - Specify the location for the service.
Comments - Specify any additional comments regarding the service.
5. Click Submit.

Retrieving WO services for RFQ service
When retrieving WO services for RFQ service, the system copies values to each new part
line.
To retrieve work order services for RFQ service:
1. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations.
2. Select the record for which to define services, and then click the Services tab.
3. Click Add Service Line. The system automatically populates Line, Type, and Delivery
Address.
4. Click Retrieve WO Services.
5. Select the services to add to the RFQ, and then click OK.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

574 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Copying RFQs
The copy RFQ feature copies an RFQ, including all details.
1. Create an RFQ. See Generating RFQs from requisitions.
2. Select Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations
3. Right-click anywhere on the Requests for Quotations form, and then select Copy
RFQ.
4. Specify this information:
New RFQ Description - Specify the description for the new RFQ.
Due Date - Specify the due date for the new RFQ.
5. Select the record types to copy, and then click Submit. All RFQ details are copied to the
new RFQ.
Some exceptions apply to the header, service, part, and comment details
copied.

Work management
Managing work involves creating, planning, and scheduling work orders. The work
management life cycle begins when a person, department, or company identifies a work order
that the maintenance department must complete. Before using the work management
module, define initial work information such as supervisors, permits, qualifications, trades,
employees, shifts, tasks, tools, material lists, and EMRS codes. You may create standard
work orders, and then apply the information from standard work orders to regular work orders.
Next, create regular work orders to repair broken equipment, modify equipment to meet safety
and environmental standards, perform work orders during a normal workday, and record
information concerning equipment problems. Enter header information on the Work Order
Record View page, and then add activities to the work order, schedule labor, associate
qualifications with work order activities, book labor and vendor hours, associate parts, enter
meter readings, create child work orders, add permits, and request tools as necessary. You
may also view the status of work orders and view work order information such as work order
cost and service request details. Finally, close the work order after the work is complete.
Create preventive maintenance (PM) work orders to generate periodic work orders for

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

575 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

specified frequencies or meter readings. PM work orders apply to single pieces of equipment
or systems that include several pieces of equipment.
On the Work Order Scheduling form, you may view the current work order schedule,
calculate labor availability, and view labor utilization. Schedule unscheduled or backlogged
work orders. Reschedule work orders as necessary. Additionally, you can view work order
comments, change the work order status, and freeze or unfreeze activity schedules. You may
balance the workload on the WO Load Balancing form.

Defining initial work information
Define initial work information before using the work management module.

Defining supervisors
Define codes to represent employee supervisors.
To define supervisors:
1. Select Work > Setup > Supervisors.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the supervisor belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Supervisor -Specify a unique code identifying the supervisor, and then enter a
description of the supervisor in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the supervisor.
4. Click Save Record.
Optionally, click Revoke to remove the supervisor's record and all references to the
record for GDPR compliance.
This process is not reversible.

Defining permits

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

576 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define permits to link safety and permitting information to equipment, locations, categories,
PM schedules, standard work orders and work orders. For example, you may define a "hot"
work permit regarding welding in a restricted area; a "confined space entry" permit when
workers must complete the work in an enclosed production space such as a tank or vessel; or
a "lockout-tagout" permit when the equipment involved must be cut off from operational power
supplies.
Define equipment, locations, categories, PM schedules, standard work orders and
work orders before associating permits with these. Describe any necessary permit information
and instructions on the Permit Body tab.
To define permits:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permits.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the permit belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Permit - Specify a unique code identifying the permit, and then enter a description in the
adjacent field. Leave it blank and the system assigns an identifying code.
Status - Select the status of the permit to work, e.g. select Unfinished if the permit to
work is not yet finished.
Class - Specify the class of the permit. The classes shown belong to the PERM entity.
The system automatically populates Class Org.
Auto Create PTW - Select to automatically create the permit to work.
PTW Type - Select the type of work to be performed on the permit, e.g., Confined
space entry if the work to be performed must be completed in an enclosed space.
Type of Work - Select the type of work to be performed on the permit to work.
Priority - Select the priority of the work to be performed on the permit to work.
Risk - Select the risk the permit to work poses to your organization.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

577 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

LOTO Required - Select to require a lockout/tagout permit.
Isolation Type - Select the isolation type or method for isolating or disconnecting
equipment (e.g., water valve) from its energy source in order that work can be
performed without risk or injury.
Date Review Required - Specify the date a review is required for the permit.
Out of Service - If selected the permit will not display in the Permits lookups.
4. Click Save Record.
The system automatically populates Created By and Date Created.
The system automatically populates Created By and Date Created. To create
a new revision of the permit, select a permit record for which to create a new revision,
and then click Create New Revision.

Adding permit body comments
Add specific permit body comments, and then specify whether the comments should print with
the specified record.
To add permit body comments:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permits.
2. Select the permit for which to enter permit body comments, and then click the Permit
Body tab.
3. Click Add Comment.
4. Specify this information:
Language - Select the language of the comment.
5. Enter comments as necessary.
6. Optionally, select the Print with Document check box to print the comments on the
associated report.
7. Click Save.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

578 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Deleting permit body comments
Delete permit body comments as necessary.
To delete permit body comments:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permits.
2. Select the permit for which to delete permit body comments, and then click the Permit
Body tab.
3. Click the header of the permit body comment to delete.
4. Click Delete.

Modifying permit body comments
Modify permit body comments as necessary.
To modify permit body comments:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permits.
2. Select the permit for which to modify permit body comments, and then click the Permit
Body tab.
3. Click the header of the permit body comment to modify.
4. Modify the existing comments as necessary.
5. Click Save.
The system displays the modified comment on the Permit Body page.
The system does not display a link for the original Created comment after the
comment is modified. To preserve all comments, do not delete any previous comment
text when modifying comments.

Defining qualifications
Define qualifications to establish a set of occupational standards and/or required job-related
training for personnel, tasks, trades, and/or work order activities. After defining a qualification,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

579 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

associate the qualification with personnel, tasks, trades, and/or work order activities to
establish your criteria for qualification enforcement of work activities. Qualification
enforcement is determined by the WOQUAL installation parameter.
If you are using qualification enforcement, you can only assign/schedule an employee who
has the necessary qualification(s) to perform the work for which a qualification is required. If a
qualification is associated with a trade, task, or work order activity, the employee must have
that qualification on their personnel record. Employee qualifications are active if the employee
has completed the necessary training course/requirements for the qualification and the
qualification duration has not expired.
You can also define qualifications as training records to create a historical record of jobrelated training employees receive that does not need to be tracked for qualification
enforcement.
1. Select Work > Setup > Qualifications.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the qualification belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Qualification - Specify a unique code identifying the qualification, and then enter a
description of the qualification in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the qualification. The classes shown belong to the QUAL
entity.
Active - Select to indicate whether the qualification is active.

• If you clear the Active check box for a qualification, then you can no longer
associate the qualification with any subsequent personnel, tasks, trades, and/or
work order activities. However, if the deactivated qualification is already
associated with any personnel, tasks, trades, and/or work order activities, the
qualification will still be required for any existing personnel, tasks, trades, and/or
work order activities.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

580 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• You can also select and clear the Active check box to temporarily activate and
deactivate a qualification as necessary.
Training Record - Select to indicate whether the qualification is associated with a
training record. By defining a qualification as a training record, the system does
not track the qualification for qualification enforcement, and the qualification
cannot be associated with tasks, trades, and/or work order activities.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining trades
Define codes for the types of employees performing maintenance work. The cost of the trade,
based on an hourly rate, is charged back to the appropriate work order, asset, or project,
ensuring correct cost accounting. A single trade may have multiple rates based on the type of
work performed or the department associated with the trade for a specific work order.
Define standard trade rates for suppliers on the Supplier Rates tab of the Trades form. On
the Qualifications tab, you may associate qualifications with trades to establish the minimum
qualifications for an employee belonging to a trade to perform work for which the trade is
selected.
When scheduling work, you can select to assign the work to an employee and/or a trade.
When booking hours for the work, the labor cost of the hours to book is calculated based on
the trade rate defined for either the employee or the trade rate defined for the trade.
To define trades:
1. Select Work > Setup > Trades.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the trade belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Trade - Specify a unique code identifying the trade, and then enter a description of the
trade in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class to further subdivide the trade as necessary. For example,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

581 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

specify apprentice, journeyman, or master.
Abbreviation - Specify the abbreviation for the trade.
Out of Service - Select this check box to indicate the trade is no longer in use.
Available for CUs - Select this check box to indicate that this trade is available for
compatible units.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining trade rates
Define rates for trades. When booking hours, the Hourly Rate defined for the employee, is
used. If so, the hours are booked at that rate. However, if you have not defined trade rates for
the employee, the Hourly Rate defined for the trade on the trade Rates tab, is assigned.
1. Select Work > Setup > Trades.
2. Select the trade for which to define rates, and then click the Rates tab.
3. Click Add Rate.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the rate belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Type of Hours - Specify hour occupation type for this work. For example, select N for
normal hours or O for overtime hours.
Department - Specify the department associated with this rate. If the rate applies to all
departments, enter*.
Hourly Rate - Specify the hourly rate for this trade.
Start Date / End Date - Specify the beginning and ending dates to which the rate
applies.
Dates for the same trade type/department combination cannot overlap. For
example, the MAINT department of ORG1 cannot have an overtime hourly rate of 20 to
start 01-01-2004 and end 12-31-2004 and another overtime hourly rate of 30 to start

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

582 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

05-01-2004.
Currency - The currency of the organization is displayed.
CU Standard Rate - Specify the standard rate to be used when performing estimation
for compatible units.
5. Click Submit.

Defining supplier trade rates
First define trades and trade rates. Then, define standard trade rates for suppliers. You can
also define rates on the Rates tab of the Suppliers page.
To define supplier trade rates:
1. Select Work > Setup > Trades.
2. Select the trade for which to define supplier rates, and then click the Supplier Rates
tab.
3. Click Add Supplier Rate.
4. Specify this information:
Supplier - Specify the code identifying the supplier. The system automatically populates
the description of the supplier, the Organization, the Supplier Org., and the currency.
Hourly Rate - Specify the hourly rate for the supplier trade.
Organization - Specify the organization for the supplier rate if the organization of the
selected trade is common. The system displays only those organizations to which you
have access. Otherwise, Organization defaults to the organization of the trade.
Start Date / End Date - Specify the beginning and ending dates to which the rate
applies.
5. Click Submit.

Associating qualifications with trades
Associate qualifications with trades to establish the minimum qualifications for an employee

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

583 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

belonging to a trade to perform work for which the trade is selected. Qualifications are defined
on the Qualifications form.
After defining a qualification, you can associate it with a trade. If an employee is associated
with a trade for which there is a qualification, the employee must have an active record of that
qualification on their personnel record. Employee qualifications are active if the employee has
completed the necessary training course/requirements and the training has not expired as
indicated by the Start Date and Expiration Date for the qualification on the employee’s
personnel record. Employees can also be Temporarily Disqualified for qualifications as
necessary on their personnel record.
If you have associated a qualification with a trade, and you associate a trade with a work
order activity, you can only schedule employees associated with the selected trade who have
the active qualifications required for that trade to be assigned/scheduled to perform the work.
If you delete a qualification previously associated with a trade, then the deleted trade
qualification will no longer be required for any subsequent work order activities to which the
trade is assigned.
Likewise, if you add a new qualification to a trade or update an existing qualification
associated with a trade, the new/updated trade will not affect any existing work order activities
to which the trade is assigned. However, the added/updated qualification will be required for
any subsequent work order activities to which the trade is assigned, and the system displays
a message indicating the number of open work orders for the trade.
To associate qualifications with trades:
1. Select Work > Setup > Trades.
2. Select the trade with which to associate qualifications, and then click the Qualifications
tab.
3. Click Add Qualification.
4. Specify this information:
Qualification - Specify the qualification to associate with the trade.
5. Click Submit.

Defining employee information

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

584 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define employee information to track full-time, part-time, and seasonal employees, and then
define wage rates for employees to establish a specific hourly pay rate for an employee. Also,
you may record labor availability exceptions for individual employees and for groups. You may
associate qualifications with employee codes to establish qualifications for personnel. Finally,
associate specific employee positions with certain functions on the Types page.

Defining employee codes
Define codes to represent individual employees, and then use the employee codes to track
full-time, part-time, and seasonal personnel.
1. Select Work > Setup > Employees.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the employee belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Employee - Specify a unique code identifying the employee, and then enter a
description of the employee code in the adjacent field.
Department - Specify the employee’s department.
4. Specify this Employee Details information:
Select the Out of Service check box to prevent the employee code from being
displayed in lookups. Out of Service is automatically populated if the employee has
been transferred to another organization.
Transferred To Employee and Transferred To Employee Org. are automatically
populated when an employee is transferred between company organizations. See
Transferring employees between organizations
Class - Specify the class of the employee.
Trade - Specify the employee’s trade or craft.
Job Title - Specify the employee's job title.
Supervisor - Specify the employee's supervisor.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

585 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Associated User - Specify the EAM Mobile user to associate with this employee.
Tradeperson - Select this check box to indicate this employee belongs to a trade
profession.
Workspace Occupant - Select this check box to indicate this employee occupies a
physical workspace.
Determines Crew Location for Dispatching - This check box is used on the GIS Map
WO Dispatching screen to show a crew's location on the map. Select this check box to
indicate this employee's mobile device will show the crew's location on that map.
The employee associated to the mobile device's logged-on user is utilized.
Breadcrumbs from that device are used to determine the device location shown on the
map
Hire Date - Specify the date the employee was hired.
Date of Birth - Specify the employee's date of birth.
Terminated Date - Specify the date the employee is terminated.
Payroll No. - Specify a payroll number to which to associate the employee.
Security Badge No. - Specify the employee's security badge number.
Driver's License No. - Specify the employee’s driver’s license number.
Alias - Specify an alias to associate to the employee.
Notification Preference - Select the employee's preference for receiving notifications.
5. Optionally, click Upload Profile Picture to add a profile picture for the employee.
6. Specify this Contact Information details for the employee:
Specify the employee's Address, City, State, Zip Code, and Country.
Specify the employee's Emergency Contact and the Emergency Contact Phone No.
Specify the employee's Work Phone No., Mobile Phone No., and Home Phone No.
E-mail Address - Specify the employee’s e-mail address as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

586 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Image URL - Specify the employee's URL address for their image.
7. Optionally, specify this Contract and Rental Details information for the employee:
Fleet Customer - Specify the fleet customer with which to associate the employee.
Cost Code - Specify the fleet cost code with which to associate the employee.
Customer - Specify the contract rental customer with which to associate the employee.
8. Click Save Record.
Scheduling Session and Scheduling Session Type are automatically populated.
Optionally, click Revoke to remove the employee's record and all references to the
record for GDPR compliance.
This process is not reversible.

Defining wage rates for employees
Define wage rates for employees to establish a specific hourly pay rate for an employee.
Rates for employees can be defined based on the employee’s level of experience, training,
etc. Therefore, employees belonging to a designated trade can have different pay rates than
other employees belonging to the same trade.
You must designate a Trade for an employee when you define the employee code.
See Defining employee codes.
When scheduling work, you can select to assign the work to an employee and/or a trade.
When booking hours for the work, the system calculates the labor cost of the appropriate
work order, asset, or project based on the hourly pay rate defined for the employee or the
trade. Therefore, when booking hours, the labor cost for performing work can be based on the
rate defined for either the employee or the trade.
To define wage rates for employees:
1. Select Work > Setup > Employees.
2. Select the employee for whom to define wage rates, and then click the Rates tab.
3. Click Add Rate.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

587 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the rate belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Type of Hours - Specify the occupation type for this work, e.g., enter N for normal
hours or O for overtime hours. The values listed belong to the OCTP entity.
Department - Specify the department associated with this rate. If the rate applies to all
departments, enter *.
Hourly Rate - Specify the hourly rate for this employee.
Start Date - Specify the beginning date to which the rate applies.
Dates for the same type of hours/department/organization combination cannot
overlap. For example, the MAINT department of ORG1 cannot have an Hourly Rate of
20 for overtime Type of Hours to start 01-01-2004 and end 12-31-2004 and another
Hourly Rate of 30 for the overtime Type of Hours to start 05-01-2003.
End Date - Specify the ending date to which the rate applies.
End Date must be later than or equal to Start Date.
5. Click Submit.

Recording labor availability exceptions for individual employees
Labor availability records are used to calculate the available hours for employees.
To record labor availability exceptions for individual employees:
1. Select Work > Setup > Employees.
2. Click the Availability Exceptions tab.
3. Click Add Exception.
4. Specify this information:
Date - Specify the date the employee will be absent. If the employee will be absent for
multiple days, create multiple, separate date records.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

588 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Hours - Specify the number of hours for each day the employee will be present. If the
employee is available for two hours, enter 2. You cannot enter more than 24 hours per
day.
Start Time - Select the time work begins for the employee, even for days on which no
work occurs, for each day in the shift. Specify the time in HH:MM format, e.g., 08:00 for
8:00 AM.
Comments - Specify any additional comments.
5. Click Submit.

Recording labor availability exceptions for groups
Create labor availability exceptions for a group of employees. For example, create an
exception for all employees on Christmas day.
Create exceptions for individual employees using the Availability Exceptions page
of the Employees form.
When recording a labor availability exception for a group, the selected employee record is not
affected.
To record labor availability exceptions for groups:
1. Select Work > Setup > Employees.
2. Click the Record View tab.
3. Click Create Group Exception.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to record labor availability exceptions.
Shift / Trade / Department - Specify the shift, trade, and/or department for which to
record an exception.
Start Date / End Date - Specify the starting date and ending date of the period for
which to record an exception.
Hours - Specify the number of hours for each day the employees will be present. If the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

589 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

employees are available for two hours, enter 2. You cannot enter more than 24 hours
per day.
Employee - Specify the employee for which to create multiple availability exceptions.
Comments - Specify a comment about the exception.
End Date must be later than or equal to Start Date.
5. Click Process.
6. Click Close.

Associating qualifications with employee codes
Associate qualifications with employee codes to establish qualifications for personnel. By
associating qualifications with an employee, you can establish the criteria to determine
whether an employee is qualified to perform work. Qualifications are defined on the
Qualifications form. See Defining qualifications.
After defining a qualification, you can associate the qualification with an employee record to
add detailed information about the qualification, including whether the employee has
completed the necessary training courses for a qualification, continuing education units
(CEU), course cost, the duration of an employee’s certification/qualification period, and the
dates by which the system validates whether an employee’s qualification is current or expired.
If you are using qualification enforcement for work, which is determined by the WOQUAL
installation parameter, and an employee has not completed the necessary training courses
required for a qualification, their certification/qualification is expired, or if you have disqualified
them for any reason, you cannot schedule the employee to perform the work for which the
qualification is required.
You can also define qualifications as training records to create a record of any jobrelated training employees receive that does not need to be tracked for qualification
enforcement.
Associating qualifications with employee codes also enables you to create qualification history
that allows you to maintain current qualification records, old or expired qualification records,
and any subsequent re- qualifications for a qualification record. If you are re-qualifying a
specific qualification record, simply enter new qualification dates for the existing code, or

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

590 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

enter a new record with the same code as the existing qualification; however, you must enter
new qualification dates for the re-qualification.
To associate qualifications with employee codes:
1. Select Work > Setup > Employees.
2. Select the employee with which to associate qualifications, and then click the
Qualifications tab.
3. Click Add Qualification.
4. Specify this information:
Qualification - Specify the qualification to associate with the employee.
Start Date - Specify the date on which the duration of the qualification begins.
Duration - Specify the duration of the qualification, and then select the unit of measure
for the duration of the qualification in the adjacent field. The expiration date of the
qualification for the employee is calculated based on the values entered for Start Date
and Duration. and then Expiration Date is populated with the appropriate date. If no
value is entered for Duration, you must specify the Expiration Date for the qualification
manually.
The system immediately validates whether the qualification is current based on
the Start Date and Expiration Date for the qualification. If the qualification is current,
the system selects Qualified. If the duration of the qualification has expired or is not
current, the system automatically clears Qualified.
The system clears Qualified if you select Temporarily Disqualified. You can select to
disqualify an employee’s qualification as necessary by selecting Temporarily
Disqualified. Selecting Temporarily Disqualified overrides the qualification Expiration
Date, and the qualification is no longer valid even if the qualification has not expired.
Comments - Specify comments about the qualification.
Course Start - Specify the start date of the course.
Course Finish - Specify the finish date of the course.
Course Cost - Specify the cost of the course, and then select the currency for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

591 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

course cost in the adjacent field.
Completed - Select to indicate whether the employee has completed the course.
Certification Type - Select the type of certification. Certification types are linked to the
certification type entity, for which you must define certification type codes as user codes
on the System Codes form.
Certification Number - Specify the certification number for the qualification.
Hours - Specify the number of hours for the course.
CEU - Specify the number of continuing education units for the course.
Purpose - Specify the purpose of the course.
5. Click Submit.

Associating employee types
Associate employee types with employees. An employee can have multiple employee types.
Define employee types on the System Codes form.
See the information about defining system codes in the HxGN EAM System Administrator
Guide.
1. Select Work > Setup > Employees.
2. Select the employee with whom to associate the employee type, and then click the
Types tab.
3. Click Add Type.
4. Specify this information:
Type - Specify the type of the employee.
5. Click Submit.

Transferring employees between organizations

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

592 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Transfer employees from one organization to another organization within your company if you
use multi-organization security.
When you transfer an employee between organizations, the system:
• Creates a new record with the employee's new organization, and a historical record with
the employee's old organization.
• Automatically populates fields in the new employee record based on the historical
record.
• Validates information in the new employee record against the employee's new
organization.
If a conflict exists with the employee's Class, Fleet Customer, and Cost Code, the system
clears these fields when you submit the transfer.
Additionally, when you transfer an employee into an organization of which he or she was
previously a member, the system automatically updates fields in the new employee record
based on the historical record for the original organization. The system copies child records
and updates associated records.
To transfer employees between organizations:
1. Select Work > Setup > Employees.
2. Select the employee to transfer, and then click the Transfers tab.
3. Click Add Transfer.
4. Specify this information:
New Organization - Specify the organization to which the employee is being
transferred. The system automatically populates New Department and New Trade if
the employee's current department and trade are valid for the new organization.
Historic Employee Code - Specify a unique employee code to assign to the
employee's historical record.
New Department - Specify the employee's new department.
New Trade - Specify the employee's new trade.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

593 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.
The system automatically populates Transferred By and Date Transferred.

Viewing outstanding issues for employees
View the list of parts issued to an employee that remain outstanding and have not been
returned to stock.
To view outstanding issues for employees:
1. Select Work > Setup > Employees.
2. Select the employee for which to view outstanding part issues, and then click the
Outstanding Issues tab.
3. View the outstanding issues for employees.

Defining shifts
Define the shifts used within the organization.
To define shifts:
1. Select Work > Setup > Shifts.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the shift belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Shift - Specify a unique code identifying the shift, and then enter a description of the
shift in the adjacent field.
Days in Rotation - Specify the number of days in the shift.
Days in Rotation must be an integer between 1 and 999.
If you edit the number of days in a rotation to a value less than the original value, one or
more of the days may be deleted. For example, if you previously defined 5 as the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

594 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

number of Days in Rotation and then change the number to 4, one of the days will be
deleted.
Shift Start Date - Specify the date the shift goes into effect. For example, if the
workweek begins on Monday, ensure that this date is a Monday.
Class - Specify the class of the shift.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining days for shifts
Define the days for established shifts.
To define days for shifts:
1. Select Work > Setup > Shifts.
2. Select the shift for which to define days, and then click the Days tab.
3. Click Add Day.
4. Specify this information:
Day Number - Enter a new record for each day in the shift, numbered 1, 2, 3, etc.
Number of Hours - Enter the number of hours worked in the shift for each day. For
days on which no work occurs, enter 0.
Start Time - Select the time work begins, even for days on which no work occurs, for
each day in the shift. Enter the time in HH:MM format, e.g., 08:00 for 8:00 AM.
5. Click Submit.

Defining shift personnel
Assign employees to a specific shift.
Define employees on the Employees form.
1. Select Work > Setup > Shifts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

595 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the shift with which to associate the employee, and then click the Employees
tab.
3. Click Add Employee.
4. Specify this information:
Employee - Specify the employee working on the shift.
Start Date / End Date - Specify the first and last dates the employee works on the shift.
You can assign an employee to multiple shifts, but the dates of the shifts
cannot overlap.
5. Click Submit.

Defining shift crews
Assign crews to a specific shift.
Define crews on the Crews form.
1. Select Work > Setup > Shifts.
2. Select the shift with which to associate the crew, and then click the Crews tab.
3. Click Add Crew.
4. Specify this information:
Crew - Specify the crew working on the shift.
Start Date - Specify the first date the crew works on the shift.
End Date - Specify the last date the crew works on the shift.
You can assign a single crew multiple times to the same shift, but the dates of
the shifts cannot overlap.
5. Click Submit.

Defining crews

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

596 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define and edit crew records.
1. Select Work > Setup > Crews.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Crew - Specify a unique code identifying the crew, and then enter a description in the
adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization to which the crew belongs.
Class - Specify the class to which the crew belongs.
Supervisor - Specify the supervisor of the crew.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to choose to not display the crew.
5. Optionally, specify the Expiration Date until which the crew is available throughout the
system.
If Expiration Date is empty, the crew will never expire.
6. Optionally, select the Profile Picture lookup to display a crew's picture.
7. Optionally, click the Upload Profile Picture button to upload a crew's picture.
8. Optionally, select the View Profile Picture button to view the crew's picture.
9. Click Save Record.

Adding employees to crews
Add employees or update employee information for crews.
To add employees to crews:
1. Select Work > Setup > Crews.
2. Select the crew to which to add employees, and then click the Employees tab.
3. Click Add Employee.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

597 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Employee - Specify the employee code. The system automatically populates Name.
Start Date - Specify the shift start date for the employee.
End Date - Specify the shift end date for the employee.
5. Click Submit.

Defining standard crews
Define standard crews as templates to support compatible units estimates. Use the standard
crews defined on this screen to select when creating a compatible units estimates project.
1. Select Work > Setup > Standard Crews.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify an organization for this crew.
Standard Crew - Specify a unique code identifying the standard crew you are creating,
and then specify a description of the crew in the adjacent field.
Crew Class - Specify a class for this standard crew.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to prevent this crew from displaying in
Standard Crew lookups on the Compatible Units screens.
5. Click Save Record.

Defining rates for standard crews
Associate rates with standard crews. One standard crew may have multiple rates associated.
1. Select Work > Setup > Standard Crews.
2. Select the standard crew for which to define rates, and then click the Rates tab.
3. Click Add Rate.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

598 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify an organization for the rate.
Department - Specify the department.
Hourly Rate - Specify the rate per hour.
Start Date - Specify the date the rate becomes valid.
End Date - Specify the date the rate ends or is no longer valid.
CU Standard Rate - Optionally, specify the rate to be used when costs are calculated
for a CU estimate.
5. Click Submit.

Defining task plan information
A task plan is a predefined set of work order activity details that may be referenced on an
activity of a work order, PM schedule, or standard work order to minimize data entry and
ensure consistent planning for jobs.
Define the cost of the task plans for each supplier on the Suppliers tab, and then define
prices for common task plans on the Prices tab if you are using multi-organization security.
Finally, associate qualifications with task plans to establish the minimum qualifications for an
employee to perform task plans associated with work on the Qualifications tab.
To define task plan information:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the task plan belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Task Plan - Specify a unique code identifying the task plan, and then enter a description
of the task plan in the adjacent field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

599 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Class - Specify the class of the task plan. The classes shown belong to the TASK entity.
Trade - Specify the trade with which to associate the task plan.
Estimated Hours - Specify the number of hours estimated to complete the task plan.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to complete the task plan.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the task plan.
Specify this information only if you use the Equipment Maintenance Reporting System
(EMRS):
Depending on your system configuration, the EMRS-related fields may not be
displayed. Contact your system administrator for more information.
EMRS-related information you enter on this form is copied to all standard work order
activities, PM activities, and work order activities with the selected task plan.
Reason For Repair - Specify the reason for the repair.
Work Accomplished - Specify the work performed.
Technician Part Failure - Specify the reason the technician or supplier thinks the
equipment failed.
Manufacturer - Specify the Manufacturer/Supplier Code to associate with the
equipment.
System Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the system needing repair.
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the subsystem needing repair.
The values available are based on the system-level code.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the specific component or part
needing repair. The values available are based on a combination of the system-level
code and the assembly-level code. The system automatically populates EMRS
Description based on the combination of the system, assembly, and component
descriptions.
Isolation Method - Select if the task plan is used as part of a lockout/tagout procedure
(LOTO).

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

600 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Out of Service - Select to indicate the task plan should not display in lookups on the
Standard WO page.
Workspace Moves - Select to indicate the task plan is used as part of a workspace
move procedure.
Preferred Supplier - Specify the preferred supplier for the task plan.
Total Price - Specify the total cost of the task plan per unit of measure. The system
automatically populates Hourly Rate as the Total Price divided by the number of
Estimated Hours, and the Currency.
Commodity - Specify the commodity to associate with the task plan.
Buyer - Specify the buyer (user) responsible for the task plan.
Active Checklist - Select if the task plan contains active checklist items.
Performed By Required - Select to indicate the identification of person performing the
checklist on the task plan is required.
Reviewed By Required - Select to indicate the identification of the person reviewing
the checklist results on the task plan is required.
Revision Status - Specify the revision status for the route. The system automatically
populates Revision.
You can enter a Revision Status only if the PMRVCTRL installation parameter
is set to Yes. Contact your system administrator for more information.
WO Description - Specify the description of the follow-up work order the system will
create when checklist items are selected for follow-up.
WO Type - Select the work order type of the task plan checklist.
WO Class - Specify the work order class of the task plan checklist.
WO Status - Select the work order status of the follow-up work order.
WO Priority - Select the work order priority of the follow-up work order.
4. Specify this Permit to Work Tags information to define your unique tags:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

601 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Tag Header - Specify a unique name for the tag.
Tag Line 1 - Specify a unique tag for line 1.
Tag Line 2 - Specify a unique tag for line 2.
Tag Line 3 - Specify a unique tag for line 3.
Tag Line 4 - Specify a unique tag for line 4.
5. Click Translate WO Description to translate the follow-up work order description.
6. Click Save Record.

Adding and modifying task plan instructions
Add specific task plan instructions, and then specify whether the instructions should print with
the specified record.
Modify task plan instructions as necessary.
Add and view task plan job instructions on the Jobs tab of the Task Plans form. You cannot
edit those instructions on this form, you can only view the instructions.
To add or modify task plan instructions:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to enter instructions, and then click the Instructions tab.
If you are modifying task plan instructions, click the header of the instruction to
modify, and then specify the information below.
3. Click Add Instructions.
4. Specify this information:
Language - Select the language of the instruction.
Print with Document - Select to print the instructions on the associated report.
5. Specify instructions or modify existing instructions as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

602 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Format comments using the HTML Editor Toolbar.
6. Click Save.

Planning labor for task plans
Plan and view the labor necessary to complete the task plan or specific jobs on a task plan.
SHOWJOB installation parameter must be set to YES and Planning Level must be
set to Task Plan to plan at the job level.
To plan and edit labor on this page Enable Enhanced Planning must be selected for the task
plan regardless of planning level settings.
It is not possible to create planned labor records for the task plan and create planned labor
records for a job on the same task plan. Planned labor records can be performed at one level
or the other, but not both.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to plan labor, and then click the Plan Labor tab.
3. Optionally, select the specific job for which to plan labor for the task plan, or select
Show All Records to display all of the records for the task plan, including pre-planned
jobs or a job created specifically for the task plan.
If the task plan Planning Level is set to Job Plan, select the job for which to
create a planned labor record.
Alternately, if the task plan Planning Level is set to Task Plan and Job is set to Show
All Records all of the records for the selected task plan are displayed.
If a pre-planned job plan is selected all associated records are displayed, however
changes cannot be made on this page. All changes must be made on the Job Plans
form.
4. Click Add Labor Line.
5. Specify this information:
Trade - Specify the trade that will perform the labor for the task plan.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

603 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Estimated Hours - Specify the number of hours estimated to complete the job.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to perform the job.
Hired Labor - Select to indicate that the job will be completed by an external source.
6. Click Submit. Total Estimated Hours and Total People Required are calculated for
the selected task plan.

Planning parts for task plans
Plan the parts required to complete a task plan, or to complete specific jobs on a task plan.
You may associate the parts to the task plan by populating an existing material list on the
Record View page of the Task Plan form, or by directly entering the parts required on this
tab.
The SHOWJOB installation parameter must be set to YES and Planning Level for
the task plan must be set to Job Plan to plan at the job level.
The Enabled for Enhanced Planning check box must be selected for the task plan to use
this tab.
It is impossible to create planning records for the task plan and to create planning records for
a job on that same task plan. Planning can be done at one level or the other, but not both.
To plan parts for task plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to plan parts, and then click the Plan Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part Line.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add to the task plan. The part description, Part Org., Long
Description, UOM, Primary Manufacturer, and Primary Manufacturer Part Number
are automatically populated.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part.
Quantity - Specify the quantity of the part required to complete the job or task plan.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

604 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Planned Source - Select the planned source for supplying the part, e.g., enter Stock if
the part will be supplied from the stock inventory.
Line Number - Specify the line number for the part on the task plan.
Equipment - Specify the equipment required to complete the job or task plan.
Equipment Org., Equipment Type, Primary Manufacturer, and Primary
Manufacturer Part Number are automatically populated.
5. Optionally, select the Reserve check box to reserve this part for the material list of the
task plan when this material list is requested on a new task plan.
6. Optionally, select the Critical check box to indicate the part is critical to all task plan
jobs requiring the material list.
7. Click Save Record.

Planning tools for task plans
Plan the tools necessary to complete a task plan by adding, deleting, or modifying the lists of
tools associated to task plans. Alternately you may view the tools associated to task plans.
To plan tools for tasks plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to plan tools, and then click the Plan Tools tab.
3. Click Add Tool.
4. Specify this information:
Tool - Specify the tool to add to the task plan. The tool description is automatically
populated.
Hours Requested - Specify the number of hours estimated to use the tool to complete
the task plan.
Qty. Required - Specify the tool quantity estimated complete the task plan. Total Hours
Required is automatically populated.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

605 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Planning jobs for task plans
Create and plan the jobs necessary to complete a task plan by associating pre-planned jobs
to task plans. Alternately, create a specific job for a task plan on this form.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to plan jobs, and then click the Jobs tab.
3. Click Add Job.
4. Specify this information:
Sequence - Specify the sequential order in which the job should be performed during
the task plan.
Job Plan - Specify the job plan to add to the task plan. The job plan description is
automatically populated.
Description - Specify a description of the job to complete for the task plan.
Type - Select the type of job plan to be performed.
Class - Specify the class of the job plan.
Equipment Type - Specify the equipment type.
Equipment Class - Specify the class of the equipment.
Material List - Specify the material list the system will assign to the job plan.
Trade - Specify the trade to associate to the job plan.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the job plan.
Estimated Hours - Specify the number of hours estimated to complete the job.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to complete the job.
Reason For Repair - Specify the reason a repair is required for the job plan.
System Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the system needing repair.
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the subsystem needing repair.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

606 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The values available are based on the system-level code.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the specific component or part
needing repair. The values available are based on a combination of the system-level
code and the assembly-level code. EMRS Description is automatically populated
based on the combination of the system, assembly, and component descriptions.
Component Location - Specify the location the check will be performed on the
equipment.
Preferred Supplier - Specify the preferred supplier for the job plan.
Total Price - Specify the total cost of the job per unit of measure.
Commodity - Specify the commodity to associate to the job plan.
Buyer - Specify the buyer responsible for the job.
Active Checklist - Select if the tasks contains active checklist items.
Performed By Required - Select to indicate that the identification of the person
performing the checklist on the task is required.
Reviewed By Required - Select to indicate that the identification of the person
reviewing the checklist results on the task is required.
WO Description - Specify the description of the follow-up work order the system will
create when checklist items are selected for follow-up.
WO Type - Select the work order type of the task checklist.
WO Class - Specify the work order class of the task checklist.
WO Status - Select the work order status of the follow-up work order.
WO Priority - Select the work order priority of the follow-up work order.
5. Click Submit.

Adding checklists to task plans
Add a checklist to a task plan to track the completion of one step of the task plan instruction,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

607 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

or to collect qualitative and quantitative data for the task plan.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to add a checklist, and then click the Checklist tab.
3. Click Add Checklist Item. Checklist Item is automatically populated.
4. Enter a description of the checklist item.
5. Specify this information:
Sequence - Specify the sequence in which the checklist item should be answered for
the task plan.
Type - Select the type for the checklist item, e.g., enter Quantitative, Inspection, or
Meter Reading.
Required Entry - Select if completion of the checklist item is required to close the
associated work order.
Equipment Level - Select the equipment level. A checklist item can be attached to the
work order header equipment, equipment, or the route or linear referenced equipment.
Equipment Class - Specify the equipment class with which the checklist item is
associated. The system automatically populates Equipment Class Org.
Equipment Category - Specify the equipment category with which the checklist item is
associated.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the measurement. UOM is required for
inspections, meter readings, and quantitative checklist items.
Aspect - Specify the inspection aspect measured during an inspection. Aspect is
required for inspection checklist items.
Point Type - Specify the inspection point type. Point Type is required for inspection
checklist items.
Repeating Occurrences - Select to indicate the measurement recorded with this
checklist item is recorded more than one time during the execution of the task.
Follow-up Task Plan - Specify the task plan the system will assign to the follow-up

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

608 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

work order activity.
Follow-up Job Plan - Specify the job plan the system will assign to the follow-up job
plan.
Material List - Specify the material list the system will assign to the follow-up work order
activity.
System Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the system requiring the check.
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the subsystem needing repair.
The values available are based on the system-level code.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the specific component or part
needing repair. The values available are based on a combination of the system-level
code and the assembly-level code. The system automatically populates EMRS
Description.
Component Location - Specify the location the check will be performed on the
equipment.
Condition - Specify the condition of the equipment required to perform the check.
Findings - Specify the possible findings the user can select when entering results. This
is necessary for qualitative and inspection checklist items.
Entity - Specify the entity for which to enter codes on the checklist.
Entity Class Options - Specify the classes that should be used to filter the allowable
entity codes.
6. Click Submit. Updated By and Date Updated are automatically populated.

Importing checklists from task plans
To import checklists from task plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to copy a checklist, and then click the Checklist tab.
3. Click Import Checklist.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

609 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Task Plan - Specify the task plan from which to copy the checklist. The task plan
description and Task Revision are automatically populated.
5. Click Submit.

Associating qualifications with task plans
Associate qualifications with task plans and task jobs to establish the minimum qualifications
for an employee to perform tasks associated with work. Qualifications are defined on the
Qualifications form. See Defining qualifications.
After defining a qualification, you can associate it with task plans.
When you select a task plan to which you have associated qualifications for a work order
activity, you can only assign/schedule an employee that has an active record of the required
qualification(s) for that task plan on their personnel record to perform the work order activity.
Employee qualifications are active if the employee has completed the necessary training
course/requirements and the training has not expired as indicated by the Start Date and
Expiration Date for the qualification on the employee’s personnel record. Employees can
also be Temporarily Disqualified for qualifications as necessary on their personnel record.
If you delete a qualification previously associated with a task plan, then the deleted
task plan qualification will no longer be required for any subsequent work order activities for
which the task plan is selected. However, the deleted task plan qualification will still be
required for any existing work order activities for which the task plan is selected.
Likewise, if you add a new qualification to a task plan or update an existing qualification
associated with a task plan, the new/updated task plan will not affect any existing work order
activities for which the task plan is selected. However, the added/updated qualification will be
required for subsequent work order activities for which the task plan is selected, and a
message is displayed indicating the number of open work orders for the task plan.
To associate qualifications with task plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan with which to associate qualifications, and then click the
Qualifications tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

610 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Add Qualification.
4. Specify this information:
Job - Specify the job to associate with the qualification on the task plan. Job Plan is
automatically populated.
Qualification - Specify the qualification to associate with the task plan. The description
of the qualification and the Organization are automatically populated.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing estimated costs for task plans
View the estimated costs for a task plan, including the estimated costs of all jobs or a single
job on the task plan.
The following cost categories are estimated based on the information provided: internal labor,
external labor, stock items, direct purchases, and tools. The total cost is then calculated.
To view estimated costs for task plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to view estimated costs, and then click the Estimated
Costs tab.
3. Optionally, select the specific job for which to view the estimated costs for the task plan.
If Job is set to Show All Records the cost for the task plan is displayed
including all associated jobs.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the task plan. The organization of the
selected task plan is defaulted if it is a specific organization.
Department - Specify the department of the task plan.
Store - Specify the store of the task plan to calculate estimated costs per store.
This field is hidden unless PRICELEV is set to S for store level. If PRICELEV is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

611 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

set to P, prices are retrieved from the Prices tab for the part of the selected organization.
Supplier - Specify the supplier of the task plan to calculate estimated costs per supplier.
The preferred supplier of the selected task plan is defaulted.
5. View the estimated costs.

Defining prices for common task plans
With multi-organization security, you can centrally maintain prices of tasks and jobs created
specifically for task plans used across all of your organizations. Enter multiple prices per
organization for the same task or job plan when companies have multiple organizations with
different currencies in each organization
Define common task plan prices for organizations only if the MULTIORG installation
parameter is set to YES. Contact your system administrator for more information.
You can view but you cannot modify price records associated to a pre-planned job on this
screen.
To define prices for common task plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to define prices, and then click the Prices tab.
3. Select the specific job on the task plan for which to define prices.
4. Click Add Price.
5. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for the task price.
If the organization of the selected task plan is common, the system displays
only those organizations to which you have access. If the organization of the selected
task plan is specific, the system displays only the organization of the task.
Price - Specify the price for the task per unit of measure.
6. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

612 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining supplier task plan prices
First define task plans. Then, define the cost of the task plans for each supplier.
To define supplier task plan prices:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to define supplier prices, and then click the Suppliers tab.
3. Select the specific job of the task plan if you choose to define the supplier catalog for
the supplier. Job Plan is automatically populated.
4. Click Add Supplier.
5. Specify this information:
Supplier - Specify the supplier for which to define task plan prices. The system
automatically populates the description of the supplier, Supplier Org., and the currency.
Catalog Reference - Specify the supplier’s catalog reference number.
Price - Specify the supplier’s cost and base currency for the task plan.
Tax Code - Specify the tax code for the task plan.
Purchase UOM - Specify the supplier’s unit of measure for the task plan.
Qty. per UOP - Specify the quantity per unit of purchase for the task plan if the
purchase unit of measure is different from the inventory unit of measure.
Lead Time (Days) - Specify the average number of days that the supplier needs to
provide the task plan.
Expiration Date - Specify the date the price expires.
Preferred - Select if the supplier is the preferred supplier for the task plan.
Only one supplier may be the preferred supplier for a specific task plan. If you
have already selected Preferred for another supplier and then add an additional
supplier and mark it as Preferred, the system clears this designation from the previous
supplier and marks the new supplier as Preferred.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

613 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Click Submit. The system also automatically populates Exchange Rate as defined in
the exchange rates table to convert the specified Currency to the Local Currency.
Local Price is populated by calculating Price divided by Exchange Rate divided by
Qty. per UOP. Date Last Updated is populated with the current system date.

Defining sales prices for task plans
Define sales prices for task plan. Use the sales prices defined here for sales transactions on
the task plan. Sales prices can be defined for specific task plans to create invoice lines using
a fixed sales price rather than use the actual work order costs tracked by the system, like part
issues, time sheets, tool costs, etc.
To define sales prices for task plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Task Plans.
2. Select the task plan for which to define sales prices, and then click the Sales Prices
tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Job - Specify the job associated with the task plan for which to define sales prices. Job
Plan is automatically populated.
Organization - Specify the organization of the task plan.
Sales Price - Specify the sales price to specify for the selected task plan.
Date Effective - Specify the date this sales prices will become effective.
5. Click Submit.

Defining tools
Define tools for departments. Tools are pieces of equipment that a department uses to carry
out maintenance work, e.g., scaffolding or excavators. The department is usually the "owner"
of a tool, so the department’s store keeps the tools.
Tool refers to a type of tool, rather than an individual item. For example, if the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

614 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

organization has several drills, create a general Tool code called DRILL. Then create
individual parts for each drill and track them as assets using the drills’ serial numbers.
See the following table to determine the best method for defining tools in the organization:

Type of Tool

Importance to the Organization

Define Tool as a…

Hammer

Low - Tool can be replaced easily and
inexpensively

Ratchet

Medium - Tool should be ordered and kept in Tool and a part
stock

Calibration Gauge High - Tool can be ordered and kept in stock
and is also valuable

Simple tool

Tool, part, and asset

Defining simple tools
Define tools and associate with them organizations and classes. You can also specify that the
tool is available for compatible units.
1. Select Work > Setup > Tools.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the tool belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Tool - Specify a unique code identifying the tool, and then enter a description of the tool
in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the tool. The system automatically populates Class Org.
Available for CUs - Select this check box to indicate that this tool is available for
compatible units.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

615 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Save Record.

Viewing transactions for tools
View all issue and return transactions for tools. Only those tools associated to a part will
display in the transaction records.
Once the transaction records are displayed, click the work order hyperlink. The system opens
the Work Orders form and queries for the selected work order.
If a common tool is associated with a common part, the transaction price will reflect
the actual currency, e.g., the currency of the organization for the transaction.
1. Select Work > Setup > Tools.
2. Select the tool for which to view transactions, and then click the Transactions tab.
3. View the information.

Defining job plans
Define tasks on a detailed level to create a job plan. Predefine labor, parts, tools, and
qualifications for jobs to minimize data entry and to standardize work. A job plan can exist
anywhere a task plan exists, for example a job plan can be referenced on a task plan, PM
schedule, standard work order, work order, purchase requisitions, or purchase order.
Alternately a task plan can be developed by associating one or more job plans.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Job Plans.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for the job plan.
Job Plan - Specify a unique code identifying the job plan, and then enter a description
in the adjacent field.
Type - Select the type of job plan you are defining.
Class - Specify the class.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

616 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment Type - Select the type of equipment.
Equipment Class - Specify the class of the equipment.
Material List - Specify the material list the system will assign to the job plan.
Trade - Specify the trade. Multiple Trades is automatically populated.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the task.
Estimated Hours - Specify the number of hours estimated to complete the job.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to complete the job.
Reason For Repair - Specify the reason a repair is required for the job plan.
System Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the system needing repair.
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the subsystem needing repair.
The values available are based on the system-level code.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the specific component or part
needing repair. The values available are based on a combination of the system-level
code and the assembly-level code. EMRS Description is automatically populated
based on the combination of the system, assembly, and component descriptions.
Component Location - Specify the location the check will be performed on the
equipment.
Active Checklist - Select if the tasks contains active checklist items.
Performed By Required - Select to indicate that the identification of the person
performing the checklist on the task is required.
Reviewed By Required - Select to indicate that the identification of the person
reviewing the checklist results on the task is required.
WO Description - Specify the description of the follow-up work order the system will
create when checklist items are selected for follow-up.
WO Type - Select the work order type of the task checklist.
WO Class - Specify the work order class of the task checklist. The system automatically

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

617 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

populates WO Class Org.
WO Status - Select the work order status of the follow-up work order.
WO Priority - Select the work order priority of the follow-up work order.
WO Status - Select the work order status of the follow-up work order.
Revision Status - Specify the revision status for the job plan.
Approval List - Specify the approval list for the job plan.
Revision Reason - Specify an explanation of any revisions to the job plan.
Hours Requested - Specify the number of hours estimated to complete the job.
Preferred Supplier - Specify the preferred supplier for the job plan.
Total Price - Specify the total cost of the job per unit of measure.
Commodity - Specify the commodity to associate to the job plan.
Buyer - Specify the buyer responsible for the job.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to indicate the job plan does not display
in job plan lookups.
5. Click Submit.

Planning labor for job plans
Plan the labor necessary to complete a job plan.
To do labor for job plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Job Plans.
2. Select the job plan for which to plan labor, and then click the Plan Labor tab.
3. Click Add Labor Line.
4. Specify this information:
Trade - Specify the trade for the labor.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

618 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Estimated Hours - Specify the hours estimated to complete the labor.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to complete the labor.
Hired Labor - Select to indicate that the labor for the job plan will be completed by an
external source.
5. Click Submit.

Planning parts for job plans
Plan the parts required to complete a job plan. Associate the parts for the plan by populating
on an existing material list on the Record View page of the Job Plan form or by directly
entering the parts required on this tab.
To plan parts for job plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Job Plans.
2. Select the job plan for which to plan parts, and then click the Plan Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part Line.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add to the job plan.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part.
Quantity - Specify the quantity of the part needed to complete the job plan.
Planned Source - Select the source for the part, e.g., Direct Purchase for a part
ordered from an external source, or Stock for a part ordered from internal stock.
Reserve - Select to indicate the part is a part reserved for a work order.
Critical - Select if the part is critical or integral to complete the job plan.
Line Number - Modify the line number as necessary.
Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the part.
5. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

619 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Managing tools for job plans
Plan the tools necessary to complete a job plan. Add, delete, modify, or view lists of tools
associated to job plans.
To manage tools for job plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Job Plans.
2. Select the job plan for which to manage tools, and then click the Plan Tools tab.
3. Click Add Tool.
4. Specify this information:
Tool - Specify the tool to add to the job plan. The system automatically populates the
tool description.
Hours Requested - Specify the number of hours estimated to use the tool to complete
the job plan.
Qty. Required - Specify the tool quantity estimated complete the job plan. The system
automatically populates Total Hours Required.
5. Click Submit.

Adding checklists to job plans
Add a checklist to a job plan to track the completion of one step of the job instruction, or to
collect qualitative and quantitative data for the job plan.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Job Plans.
2. Select the job plan for which to add checklists, and then click the Checklist tab.
3. Click Add Checklist Item. Checklist Item is automatically populated.
4. Enter a description of the checklist item.
5. Specify this information:
Sequence - Specify the sequence in which the checklist item should be answered for
the job plan.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

620 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Type - Select the type for the checklist item, e.g., Checklist Item, Question (Yes/No),
Qualitative, Quantitative, Meter Reading, Inspection, and OK/Repair Needed.
Required Entry - Select if the completion of the checklist item is required to close the
associated work order.
Equipment Level - Select the equipment level. A checklist item can be attached to the
work order header equipment, equipment, or the route or linear referenced equipment.
Equipment Class - Specify the equipment class with which the checklist item is
associated. Equipment Class Org. is automatically populated.
Equipment Category - Specify the equipment category with which the checklist item is
associated.
Out of Service - Select
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the measurement. UOM is required for
inspections, meter readings, and quantitative checklist items.
Aspect - Specify the inspection aspect measured during an inspection. Aspect is
required for inspection checklist items.
Point Type - Specify the inspection point type. Point Type is required for inspection
checklist items.
Follow-up Task Plan - Specify the task plan to be assigned to the follow-up work order
activity.
Follow-up Job Plan - Specify the job plan to be assigned to the follow-up job plan.
Repeating Occurrences - Select to indicate the measurement recorded with this
checklist item is recorded more than one time during the execution of the job.
6. Click Submit.

Managing and adding qualifications for job plans
Add, view, or delete the list of qualifications for a job plan.
To manage and add qualifications for job plans:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

621 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > WO Planning > Job Plans.
2. Select the job plan for which to manage qualifications, and then click the Qualifications
tab.
3. Click Add Qualification.
4. Specify this information:
Qualification - Specify the qualification to manage. The system automatically populates
the qualification description and Organization.
5. Click Save.

Defining prices for job plans
With multi-organization security, you can centrally maintain prices for job plans used across
all of your organizations with different currencies. Enter and maintain multiple prices per
organization for the same job plan.
Define common prices for organizations only if the MULTIORG installation parameter
is set to YES and PMRVCTRL is set to NO and the Revision Status of the job plan is
Unfinished. Contact your system administrator.
To define prices for job plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Job Plans.
2. Select the job plan for which to define a price, and then click the Prices tab.
3. Click Add Price.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the job plan for which to define a price.
Price - Specify the price for the job plan per unit of measure.
5. Click Submit.

Defining supplier prices for job plans

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

622 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

First define job plans specifying the labor, parts, tools, and qualifications required to complete
the job plan. Then, define the cost of the job plans for each supplier based on the supplier's
service catalog of parts.
To define supplier prices for job plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Job Plans.
2. Select the job plan for which to define supplier prices, and then click the Suppliers tab.
3. Click Add Supplier.
4. Specify this information:
Supplier - Specify the supplier for which to define job plan prices.
Catalog Reference - Specify the supplier's part number for the part necessary to
complete the job plan.
Price - Specify the supplier’s cost and base currency for the job plan.
Tax Code - Specify the tax code for the job plan.
Purchase UOM - Specify the supplier’s unit of measure of the part for the job plan.
Qty. per UOP - Specify the quantity per unit of purchase for the job plan if the purchase
unit of measure is different from the inventory unit of measure.
Lead Time (Days) - Specify the average number of days that the supplier needs to
provide the job plan.
Expiration Date - Specify the date the price expires.
Preferred - Select if the supplier is the preferred supplier for the job plan.
Only one supplier may be the preferred supplier for a specific job plan. If you
have already selected Preferred for another supplier and then add an additional
supplier and mark it as Preferred, the system clears this designation from the previous
supplier and marks the new supplier as Preferred.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

623 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining sales prices for job plans
Define sales prices for a job plan. Use the sales prices defined here for sales transactions on
the job plan. Sales prices can be defined for specific job plans to create invoice lines using a
fixed sales price rather than use the actual work order costs tracked by the system, like part
issues, time sheets, tool costs, etc.
To define sales prices for job plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Job Plans.
2. Select the job plan for which to define sales prices, and then click the Sales Prices tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Task Plan - Specify the task plan associated to the job for which to define sales prices.
Organization - Specify the organization of the job plan.
Sales Price - Specify the sales price to specify for the selected job plan.
Date Effective - Specify the date this sales prices will become effective.
5. Click Submit.

Defining material lists
Certain work orders always require the same materials. A material list is a predefined list of
parts that may be referenced on an activity of a work order, PM schedule, or standard work
order to minimize data entry and ensure consistent material planning for jobs. First, define the
material list header information, and then add part line items to the material list. Material lists
must contain at least one part line item.
To define material list:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Material Lists.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

624 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization - Specify the organization to which the material list belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Material List - Specify a unique code identifying the material list, and then enter a
description of the material list in the adjacent field.
Do not use the prefix "V-" in the Material List code. Material list codes with this
prefix are reserved for system use only.
Class - Specify the class of the material list. The classes shown belong to the MATL
entity.
Revision Status - Specify the revision status for the route. Revision is automatically
populated.
You can enter a Revision Status and Approval List only if the PMRVCTRL
installation parameter is set to Yes. Contact your system administrator for more
information.
Approval List - Specify the list of approvers authorized for revisions to the material list.
4. Click Save Record.
5. Click the Parts tab.
6. Click Add Part Line. Line Number is automatically populated with the next consecutive
number according to the INCRLINO installation parameter.
7. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add to the material list.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, Condition is automatically populated.
Quantity - Specify the quantity needed. The unit of measure is displayed in the adjacent
field.
Reserve - Select to reserve the part when this material list is requested on a new work
order. If you mark the part line as Reserve, this setting will carry over to any work order
activity on which the material list is selected, and the part for the work order activity is
automatically reserved by creating a part reservation record in the indicated store for all

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

625 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

material list parts flagged for reserve.
Critical - Select if the part is critical to all work activities requiring the material list.
Line Number - Modify the line number as necessary.
Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the part. The part for issue is
displayed only when you associate the material with a work order that has the specified
equipment.
8. Click Submit.

Copying material lists
The copy material list feature copies an existing material list, including all details. If the
material list does not exist, you must first create the list.
See Defining material lists.
To copy material lists:
1. Right-click the material list to copy, and then select Copy Material List.
2. Specify this information:
New Material List - Specify the name of the new material list. New Material List
description is automatically populated.
3. Select the record types to copy, and then click Submit.

Defining EMRS codes
EMRS codes were previously called VMRS codes in the EAM application.
The American Trucking Association’s Vehicle Maintenance Reporting System (VMRS) is a set
of codes used to track equipment and maintenance within the fleet/transportation industry.
VMRS provides a "universal language" to help various personnel, such as maintenance
employees, management, suppliers, and manufacturers, communicate more easily and
accurately. Values for all Code Keys are installed in the database.
EAM has expanded the functionality to include all equipment. Within the application V for

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

626 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Vehicle is now E for Equipment. If you reference ATA codes, these codes still exist in the EAM
application, but are now stored on the EMRS Codes screen.
When defining EMRS codes, you must first define a system-level code before you can define
assembly-level or component-level codes.
1. Select Work > Setup > EMRS Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Description - Specify the description of the EMRS code.
System Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the system, for example brakes,
frame, or suspension, associated with the vehicle (Code Key 31).
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the associated subsystem (Code
Key 32). The values available are based on the system-level code.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the specific component or part
(Code Key 33). The values available are based on a combination of the system-level
code and the assembly-level code.
Icon - Select the color of the icon to indicate the importance of the user code.
Icon Path - Specify the URL path to the image you would like to use for the icon.
Accepted icon paths begin with
• http://
• //
• \\
• https://
Out of Service - Select this check box if you want the standard out of service
check to be performed for the lookups on the specified EMRS code screen.
Material Type - Specify the EMRS code identifying the associated material type.
Importance - Specify the EMRS code identifying the associated importance.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

627 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Submit.

Approving and rejecting work requests
View a list of work requests awaiting approval, and then either accept or reject the work
requests.
You must have sufficient status change authorizations to approve and reject work
requests, and you cannot approve work requests that exceed your work requests approval
limit.

Approving work requests
1. Select Work > Review Work Requests.
2. Select one or more work requests to approve, and then click Approve.
Double-click a work request to view its details.

Rejecting work requests
To reject work requests:
1. Select Work > Review Work Requests.
2. Select one or more work requests to reject, and then click Reject.
Double-click a work request to view its details.
3. Enter the reason for rejection.
4. Specify this information:
Use Reason for All - Select if you are rejecting multiple work requests and the reason
for rejection applies to all of the work requests.
5. Click OK.
The system removes the rejected work requests from the list, and then sets the system
status of the work requests to Rejected.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

628 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating standard work orders
A standard work order is a predefined set of details and activities that may be referenced on a
work order to facilitate entry of repair jobs that are performed repeatedly over time, but not
according to a definable schedule as is the case with periodic preventive maintenance. A
basic standard work order defines a simple repair job consisting of one or more activities.
A basic standard work order consists of a header and one or more activity lines. Standard
WO, Description, and Organization frame the header of any standard work order, while two
additional required fields, WO Type and Duration, and two optional fields, WO Class and
Priority, house data that transfers to any work order on which the standard work order is
selected. Any activities that are defined for the standard work order are copied to the work
order as a result of selecting a standard work order.
To restrict the list of standard work orders available on a given work order to only those
defined as applicable for the equipment and/or problem indicated on the work order at the
time the standard work order selection is made, enter Equipment Class, and/or Category.
Create standard work orders, and then apply the information from standard work orders to
regular work orders.
You can only insert, update, or delete work orders if you are authorized to do so.

Defining standard work order headers
Create headers for standard work orders. Headers include basic information about the work
orders.
To define standard work order headers:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Standard WOs.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the standard work order belongs if you
use multi-organization security.
Standard WO - Specify a unique code identifying the standard work order, and then
enter a description of the work in the adjacent field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

629 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Problem Code - Specify the code identifying the problem.
Equipment Class - Specify the class of the equipment on which to perform the work.
The classes shown belong to the OBJ entity.
Category - Specify the equipment category to which the standard work order applies.
Class - Specify the class of the work. The classes shown belong to the STWO entity.
Template - Select to create a standard work order template with which to associate
children.
If you are creating a template work order, you must specify a Duration greater
than the total duration of all child work orders.
WO Type - Select the work order type of the standard work order.
Duration - Specify the duration of the standard work order, in days.
WO Class - Specify the work order class of the standard work order.
Priority - Select the priority of the standard work order.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining standard work order activities
Set up activities for standard work orders. Associate specific task plan lists and material lists
to standard work orders.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Standard WOs.
2. Select the standard work order for which to define an activity, and then click the
Activities tab.
3. Click Add Activity.
4. Specify this information:
Activity - Specify an activity number for the first activity. If you do not provide this
number, the system automatically enters a number based on the INCRLINO installation
parameter. For example, if INCRLINO = 1, then the system enters the number "1" for

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

630 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Activity and increases by 1 for each new record. However, if INCRLINO = 5, then the
system enters the number "5" for Activity and increases by 5 for each new record.
Trade - Specify the trade of the activity.
Task Plan - Specify the task plan list of the activity.
Task Plan Qty. - Specify the required number of units of the task plan to associate with
the activity, and then select the unit of measure for the Task Plan Qty. in the adjacent
field. For example, a work order activity to pave 100 miles of highway today will indicate
a Task Plan Qty. of "100" and a unit of measure of "Miles", whereas the same task plan
on another day will indicate only 80 miles due to the steep inclines of the stretch of
highway being paved on that day.
Material List - Specify the material list to include for the activity.
Estimated Hours - Specify the number of hours estimated to complete the activity.
People Required - Specify the number of people needed to complete the activity.
Start - Specify a 1 if the activity is to start on the same day that the standard work order
starts. Enter a 2 if the activity should start on day 2 of the standard work order, etc.
Duration - Specify the duration of the activity in days.
Hired Labor - Select to indicate that the activity will be completed by an external
source.
Labor Type - Specify the labor type for the activity.
This field is only available when Hired Labor is selected.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the activity.
This field is only available when Hired Labor is selected.
Specify this information only if you use the American Trucking Association’s Vehicle
Maintenance Reporting System (VMRS), now specified as EMRS in this application.
Depending on your system configuration, the EMRS-related fields may not be
displayed. Contact your system administrator for more information.
Reason For Repair - Specify the reason the vehicle needs repair (Code Key 14).

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

631 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work Accomplished - Specify the work performed on the vehicle (Code Key 15).
Technician Part Failure - Specify the reason the technician or supplier thinks the
vehicle failed (Code Key 18).
Manufacturer - Specify the Manufacturer/Supplier Code (Code Key 34) to associate
with the vehicle.
System Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the system, for example, brakes,
frame, suspension, needing repair (Code Key 31).
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the subsystem needing repair
(Code Key 32). The values available are based on the system-level code.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the specific component or part
needing repair (Code Key 33). The values available are based on a combination of the
system-level code and the assembly-level code.
Activity Comments - Specify comments or instructions for the activity.
5. Click Submit.

Copying standard work orders
Copy standard work orders to create new standard work orders.
To copy standard work orders:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Standard WOs.
2. Select the standard work order to copy, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Right-click on the form, and then choose Copy Record.
4. Specify this information:
New Standard WO - Specify a unique code identifying the new standard work order,
and then enter a description of the work order in the adjacent field.
5. Select the related details to copy to the new standard work order:
• Custom Field Values

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

632 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Comments
• Documents
• Translations
• WO Custom Field Values
• Activities
• Activity Comments
• Children
6. Click Submit.

Assigning child work orders to standard work orders
First define standard work order headers, and then define child standard work orders. You
can only define child work orders if you selected Template on the standard work order header.
If you define child work orders using a standard work order template, the system
automatically creates a work order for each child assigned to the template.
You can also set up child work orders to change the status of a work order depending on
another work order, and you can calculate the requested start and end dates for each work
order when the new work order is created from the template.
To assign child work orders to standard work orders:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Standard WOs.
2. Select the standard work order for which to define children, and then click the Children
tab.
3. Click Add Child Standard WO.
4. Specify this information:
Child Standard WO - Specify the child standard work order to assign to the standard
work order template.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number in which to perform the child work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

633 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Step - Specify the step number (in the sequence of steps) in which to perform the child
standard work order.
Trigger Sequence - Step - Specify the sequence/step number combination of the child
standard work order that triggers the selected child work order.
Old Status - Specify the existing status of the child standard work order to be changed.
New Status - Specify the new status to assign to the child standard work order upon
completion of the triggering event.
5. Click Submit.

Managing tools for standard work orders
Add, delete, modify, or view lists of tools associated to standard work order activities and jobs.
Using the tool records, create planned tools for work orders, scheduled tools for work orders,
or both.
Manually add tools to standard work order activities that do not have an associated task plan,
or to standard work order activities for which the task plan is not enabled for enhanced
planning.
View tools associated to the standard work order task plan if the task plan is enabled for
enhanced planning.
To manage tools for standard WO:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Standard WOs.
2. Select the standard work order for which to manage tools, and then click the Plan Tools
tab.
3. Select the Activity for which to manage tools.
If Job is set to Show All Records, Job is automatically populated, protected,
and set to Show All Records.
4. Select the Job of the activity for which to manage tools.
5. Click Add Tool.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

634 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Specify this information:
Activity - Select the activity for which to manage tools. Job is automatically populated.
Tool - Specify the tool to add to the standard work order.
Hours Requested - Specify the number of hours estimated to use the tool to complete
the activity.
Qty. Required - Specify the tool quantity estimated to complete the activity. Total Hours
Required and Activity Duration are automatically populated.
7. Click Submit.

Associating permits with standard work orders
Associate permits with standard work orders. The permits will be copied to the work order
when work orders are created that reference the standard work order.
To associate permits with standard work orders:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Standard WO's.
2. Select the standard work order with which to associate a permit, and then click the
Permits tab.
3. Click Add Permit.
4. Specify this information:
Permit - Select the permit with which to associate the standard work order. The system
automatically populates the description and Permit Org.
Auto Create PTW - Select the check box to automatically create a permit to work when
the a new work order is created and the permit is copied to the work order.
PTW Type - Select the type of permit to work to create when the work order is created.
Type of Work - Select the type of work to attach to the created permit to work.
Priority - Select the priority to attach to the created permit to work.
Risk - Select to indicate the risk to attach to the created permit to work.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

635 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Activity - Specify the activity of the work order.
Mandatory - Select the check box to indicate that the permit is mandatory to complete
the work.
LOTO Required - Select the check box to require a lockout/tagout procedure of
equipment associated to the permit to work.
Isolation Type - Select the type of isolation required on the lockout/tagout procedure of
equipment associated to the permit to work.
5. Click Submit.

Adding safety hazards and precautions to standard work orders
Add hazards and precautions to standard work orders that inform your employees on how to
use equipment safely when working in hazards that can cause bodily harm and alert them in
advance of the precautions to take to protect themselves from the hazard. For example, you
can add a precaution to turn equipment off and remove the power cord from the power outlet
before performing repairs on electrical equipment.
To add safety hazards and precautions to standard work orders:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Standard WOs.
2. Select the standard work order for which to add safety precautions and hazards, and
then click the Safety tab.
3. Click Add Safety Record.
4. Specify this information:
Hazard - Specify the hazard to add to the standard work order. The system
automatically populates a description of the hazard, Hazard Org., and Hazard Type.
Precaution - Specify the safety measure to protect your employees from the hazard.
The system automatically populates a description of the precaution, Precaution Org.,
Timing, and Sequence.
Timing - Select the timing which is used to identify when the precaution should be
taken. For example, if your employee is working with fire, you can enter the timing of

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

636 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

pre-work to alert the employee that they should wear fire-resistant clothing before
beginning the task.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number which is used to identify the order in which
your employee should be made aware of the precaution. All precautions are important
regardless of the sequence number entered.
5. Select the Delete Pending check box to delete the pending safety record during the
next review.
6. Click Submit. The system automatically populates Created By and Date Created.

Defining sales prices for standard work orders
Sales prices can be defined for specific standard work orders to create invoice lines using a
fixed sales price rather than use the actual work order costs tracked by the system, like part
issues, time sheets, tool costs, etc.
To define sales prices for standard work orders:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Standard WOs.
2. Select the standard work order for which to define sales prices, and then click the Sales
Prices tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the standard work order.
Sales Price - Specify the sales price for the selected standard work order.
Date Effective - Specify the date this sales price will become effective for the standard
work order.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing estimated costs for standard work orders
View the estimated costs for a standard work order, a specific activity, or a specific job for an

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

637 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

activity.
The system estimates the following cost categories based on the information provided:
internal labor, external labor, stock items, direct purchases, tools, and total costs.
To view the estimated costs for standard work orders:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Standard WOs.
2. Select the standard work order for which to view estimated costs, and then click the
Estimated Costs tab.
3. Optionally, select the Activity for which to view the estimated costs for the standard
work order.
If Activity is set to Show All Records the cost for the work order is displayed
including all associated activities.
4. Optionally, select the Job for which to view the estimated costs for the standard work
order.
If Job is set to Show All Records the cost for the work order is displayed
including all associated jobs.
5. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the standard work order.
Department - Specify the department of the standard work order.
Store - Specify the store of the standard work order to calculate estimated costs per
store.
Supplier - Specify the supplier of the standard work order to calculate estimated costs
per supplier.
6. View the estimated costs.

Creating regular work orders
Create regular work orders to repair broken equipment, modify equipment to meet safety and
environmental standards, perform work orders during a normal workday, and record

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

638 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

information concerning equipment problems. Work orders can either be independent or part
of a much larger project. First, enter header information on the Record View tab of the Work
Orders page. Then add activities to the work order, schedule labor, associate qualifications
with work order activities, book labor and vendor hours, associate parts, enter meter readings,
create child work orders, add permits, and request tools as necessary. Add additional
equipment to work orders for which similar work will be done to distribute costs across the
equipment on the work order. You may also view the status of work orders and view work
order information such as work order cost and service request details. Finally, close the work
order after the work is complete.
View and attach GIS maps to work orders scheduled for GIS-integrated equipment.
To attach a GIS map to a work order, associate the GIS map to the work order via the Work
Orders page.
You may also configure the system to link a specific equipment record’s GIS map to work
orders as they are released via the Assets, Positions, or Systems pages.

Defining regular work order headers
Specify work order header information on the Record View tab of the Work Orders page.
To create an editable copy of the record that contains the same base data, right-click
on the Record View tab, and then choose Copy Record.
You may also associate inspection routes to work orders from the Work Orders page.
The form contains collapsible sections.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the work order belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Work Order - Specify a description of the work needed in the adjacent field. A work
order number is assigned after you save the record.
Equipment - Specify the equipment on which to perform the work.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

639 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Safety is selected if it is selected on the Location record.
Multiple Equipment is selected if you add additional equipment to the work order and it
is protected.
Type - Choose one of the following options:

Type

Description

Breakdown

Select to create a work order in response to an equipment
breakdown or failure.

Calibration

Select to create a calibration work order.

PM

Select to create a preventive maintenance work order.

Repairable Spare

Select to create a work order for repairable spare parts. If
you are creating a work order for re- pairable spare parts,
you must also add the parts to repair on the Repair Parts
tab.

Standard WO

Select to create a standard work order.

The previously listed work order types are standard types in the system. You
can also create user-defined work order types.
Department - Specify the department.
Print - Select to print the work order when work orders are batch printed.
Once the work order is printed, Printed is automatically selected and Print is
cleared.
Status - Select one of the following options:
Released - Select to create a work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

640 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work request - Select to create a work request.
If you select a Status of Work request, the work request must be approved
and assigned a status of Released before defining activities, scheduling labor, booking
labor, etc.
Safety - Select if this work requires special safety precautions.
Warranty - Select if the equipment is under manufacturer warranty.
Dependent - Select to keep the work order open until all child work orders are
completed.
4. Specify this Linear Reference Details information:
From Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record from which to perform the
work order.
Ref. Description - Specify a description of the From Point.
Geographical Ref. - Specify a geographical reference for the From Point.
To Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record to which to perform the work
order.
Ref. Description - Specify a description of the To Point.
Geographical Ref. - Specify a geographical reference for the To Point.
Inspection Direction - Specify the direction in which to begin the inspection on the
linear equipment.
Flow - Specify the direction in which the travel flows along the linear equipment, e.g.,
cars traveling on the linear equipment record for Highway 185 are traveling in the NorthSouth flow direction.
5. Specify this Production Details information:
Production Priority - Specify the priority of production for the work order.
6. Specify this Work Order Details information:
Location - Specify the location of the work to be completed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

641 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Class - Specify the class of the work order.
Problem Code - Specify the code to identify the type of problem.
Parent Work Order - Specify the code identifying the parent work order for the work
order. These fields are automatically populated:
Criticality identifies the equipment in the work request. Criticality is only populated if
you selected an Equipment for which a criticality code is linked, and it is protected.
PM Code identifies the PM work order from which the work order was generated. PM
Code is only populated if the work order was generated from a PM work order.
CN Number indicates the change notice number of the equipment on the work order.
Scheduling Session indicates the MS Project planning session associated with the
equipment on the work order.
Customer indicates the asset management customer associated with the equipment on
the work order.
Property indicates the asset management property associated with the equipment on
the work order.
Caller Name indicates the name of the person who called in to report the problem.
Reject Reason indicates the reason that the work order was rejected.
Reopened is automatically selected if the work order is closed and then reopened.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order if it has been stored in the system
library. The standard work order activities are copied to the current work order. If the
standard work order is a template, child work orders are created as defined on the
standard work order.
Priority - Specify the priority of the work order.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the work order.
Target Value - Specify the estimated maximum cost for the work order.
Failure Code - Specify the cause of failure for the equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

642 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Action Code - Specify the action taken to resolve the problem.
Cause Code - Specify the cause code identifying the cause of the problem. The
following fields are automatically populated:
Route identifies the inspection route of which the equipment is a part.
Inspection Status indicates the current status of the inspection route of which the
equipment is a part.
Downtime Cost - Specify the cost that resulted from the equipment being out of
operation due to failure.
Downtime Hours - Specify the number of hours that the equipment was out of
operation due to failure. The following fields are automatically populated:
Last Meter Reading is populated with the value of the last meter reading and the unit of
measure of the reading in the adjacent field.
Trigger Event indicates the MS Project planning session associated with the equipment
on the work order.
Customer Contract is automatically populated if there is a contract associated with the
work order or if customer charges have been calculated using the asset management
services module.
Original PM Due Date is automatically populated if the work order originated from a
PM.
If applicable, Customer Contract is populated from a project, equipment, and
location associated with the work order. It is first determines whether the work order is
associated with a customer contract; then checks for customer contracts associated
with a project that is associated with the work order (including child projects); then for
the equipment of the work order (and child equipment); and finally for the location of the
work order (and child locations).
7. Specify this Call Center Details information:
Equipment Usability - Specify the code identifying the equipment's usability factor.
Temporary Fix Promise Date - Specify the date the work will be fixed temporarily, if a
date was promised to the customer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

643 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Provider - Specify the provider.
Service Category - Specify the service category.
Permanent Fix Promise Date - Specify the date the work will be fixed permanently, if a
date was promised to the customer.
Temporary Fix Date Completed - Specify the date the temporary fix was completed.
Service Problem Code - Specify the service problem code.
Work Address - Specify the address or intersection where work is requested.
8. Specify this Activity information:
Activity - Specify a value if you want to create a new activity to associate with the work
order.
Trade - Specify the trade required to perform the activity.
If you enter a Trade, Estimated Hours, or People Required in the Activity
section of the page, an activity will automatically be created for this work order.
An activity record can be deleted when you remove the Trade value.
Task Plan - Specify the task plan code for the activity.
Material List - Specify the material list code for the material list containing the parts
needed for the work order.
Estimated Hours - Specify the estimated number of hours required to complete the
activity. Hours Remaining is automatically populated with the estimated number of
hours remaining for the activity. You may update this field at any time during the life
cycle of the work order.
Activity Start Date / Activity End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for the
activity associated with the work order.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to perform the activity.
9. Specify this Scheduling information:
Reported By - Specify the employee requesting the work.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

644 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Date Reported - Specify the date and time that the problem was reported.
If the BOOKDATE installation parameter is set to ON, you are not allowed to
book hours for labor for a date that is earlier than the Date Reported. If BOOKDATE is
set to OFF, then you can book hours without any date restrictions related to the Date
Reported.
See the following for a list of constraints related to booking hours:
• It is verified that Date Worked is not less than Date Reported for the work order.
• It is verified that Date Worked is less than or equal to Date Completed (if
populated) for the work order.
• It is verified that Date Worked is not greater than the current system date and
time.
• It is also verified whether Date Worked is within the date range defined by
Scheduled Start Date and Scheduled End Date on the work order activity.
Assigned By - Specify the supervisor who assigned the work order.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the work order.
Sched. Start Date / Sched. End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for
the work order.
Req. Start Date / Req. End Date - Specify the requested starting and ending
dates for the work order.
Start Date - Specify the actual date on which the work order is started.
Date Completed - Specify the actual date on which the work order is completed.
Shift - Specify the shift during which the work is requested to be performed.
Project-Budget - Specify the project and the project budget to associate with the
work order.
You cannot select a frozen project/budget.
Service Request - If populated, the value displayed for Service Request is a
hyperlink to the service request associated with the work order. Click the number

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

645 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

to view the associated service request.
10. Click Save Record.

• To view a GIS map and associate it with the work order, right-click on the form, and then
choose View GIS Map.
• If the work order is for a linear equipment record integrated with GIS, right-click, and
then choose View GIS Map to adjust From Point or To Point via the work order’s map.
• To create a customer invoice for the work order (for a asset management services
customer contract), right-click, and then select Create Customer Invoice. All customer
charges for the work order that are associated with the customer contract are
calculated, and a customer invoice record is generated.
• To create a standard work order from any general work order for easy duplication, rightclick on any existing work order, and then click Create Standard WO. The Create
Standard WO pop-up window is displayed. Specify New Standard WO, and then
specify a description for the new standard work order. Specify Organization, and then
click Submit.
• To view the progress of a work order, right-click on the form, and then choose Event
Log.
• To create a warranty claim for the work order, right-click, and then select Create
Warranty Claim.
• To create a production request with an Unfinished Status, specify Work Order and
Production Priority, and right-click on the form, and then choose Create Production
Request. A production request with an Unfinished Status is created.
• To create a production request with an Approved Status, specify Work Order and
Production Priority, and right-click on the form, and then choose Create Production
Order. A production request with an Approved Status is created. ERP retrieves the
production request.

Defining regular work order activities
After creating work order headers, define the specific work order activities to perform.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

646 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define the trades necessary to perform the work, the specific steps involved, the materials
required, and the work duration. Create a labor requisition as necessary. After task
completion, indicate that an activity is completed.
If you previously specified a standard work order, the system automatically displays the
activities of the standard work order. Modify the information as necessary.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to define activities, and then click the Activities tab.
3. Click Add Activity.
The system automatically populates Activity with the next available activity number,
populates Start Date and End Date with the scheduled start date of the work order, and
populates People Required with a default value of "1."
4. Specify this information:
Activity - Modify the activity number as necessary.
Trade - Specify the trade required to perform the activity.
Estimated Hours - Specify the estimated number of hours required to complete the
activity. The system automatically populates Hours Remaining with the estimated
number of hours remaining for the activity. You may update this field at any time during
the life cycle of the work order.
Optionally, specify this information:
Reason For Repair - Specify the reason the equipment needs repair.
Work Accomplished - Specify the work performed on the equipment.
Technician Part Failure - Specify the reason the technician or supplier thinks the
equipment failed.
Manufacturer - Specify the Manufacturer/Supplier Code to associate with the
equipment.
System Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the system, e.g., brakes, frame,
suspension, needing repair.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

647 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the subsystem needing repair.
The values available are based on the selected system-level code.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the specific component or part
needing repair. The values available are based on the system-level code and assemblylevel code.
Warranty - Select if the equipment is under manufacturer warranty. The system
automatically selects Warranty if there is a warranty associated with the work order
header or if there is an active warranty for the code key combination for the work order
equipment.
Completed - Select if the activity is completed.
Start Date / End Date - Modify the starting date and ending date for the activity as
necessary.
Task Plan - Specify the task plan code for the activity. The system updates the value for
People Required to correspond with the Task Plan as necessary.
Material List - Specify the code identifying the material list that contains the parts
needed for the activity.
Percent Complete - Specify the percentage of work that has been completed for the
activity.
People Required - Modify the number of people required to perform the activity as
necessary.
Task Plan Qty. - Specify the required number of units of the task plan to associate with
the activity, and then select the unit of measure for the Task Plan Qty. in the adjacent
field. For example, a work order activity to pave 100 miles of highway today will indicate
a Task Plan Qty. of "100" and a unit of measure of "Miles", whereas the same task plan
on another day will indicate only 80 miles due to the steep inclines of the stretch of
highway being paved on that day.
Hired Labor - Select to indicate that the activity will be completed by an external
source.
If the work order is a multiple equipment work order and you select Hired
Labor, the system enables Equipment and it is a required field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

648 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Labor Type - Select the type of labor needed if you selected Hired Labor.
Activity lines only appear on the Create Labor Requisition popup if you have
established one or more activities to be hired from an external source by selecting Hired
Labor and by selecting a valid Labor Type on the Activities tab.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the activity.
Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Enter a specific equipment to which to distribute the hired labor.
• Enter All Equipment to evenly distribute the hired labor to each equipment record
on the work order.
• Enter WO Header Equipment to distribute the hired labor to the equipment on the
work order header equipment.
Activity Comments - Specify comments or instructions for the activity.
5. Click Submit. Total People Required, Total Estimated Hours, and Total Hours
Remaining are automatically populated.
If the work order is a multiple equipment work order, the activity is created for
each Related Work Order.
6. Optionally, in the Actions menu, choose an action:
• To view comments entered for an activity, select the activity for which to view
comments, and then click View PM Activity Comments.
• To create a labor requisition, click Create Labor Requisitions.
• To add deferred activities for equipment, the work order must have equipment with
deferred maintenance activities. Click Add Deferred Activities.
• To reallocate direct materials, select the activity for which to reallocate direct
materials, and then click Reallocate Direct Materials.
• To create a warranty claim for the work order activity, select the activity for which
to create the warranty claim, and then click Create Warranty Claim.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

649 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To view task plan instructions, select the activity for which to view task plan
instructions, and then click View Task Plan Instructions.
• To add a part line or multiple part lines to a work order by accessing technical
documents and drawings stored in Documoto, click Add Documoto Details. See
Adding Documoto details to work order activities and jobs.
• To import activity details to a work order from a standard work order, click Import
Activities.

Importing activities for work orders
Import activities for a work order from a standard work order. The standard work order is used
to view and select the desired activities to add to the selected work order.
Out of service standard work orders and any standard work order already associated
to the selected work order will not be available in the Standard WO lookup.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to define activities, and then click the Activities tab.
3. Click Import Activities.
4. Specify the standard work order for which to import activities.
5. Select the activities to import.
6. Click Submit.

Defining additional costs for work orders
Define additional costs for work orders. Additional costs are charges related to the work order
but not to a specific part of service, i.e., non-inventory parts. These records do not affect
purchasing.
To define additional costs for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to define additional costs, and then click the Additional

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

650 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Costs tab.
3. Choose one of the following options for Activity:
• Select to display the work order activity or activities in the grid.
• Show All Records
Select this option if you want to define additional costs for multiple activities on the
work order.
4. Choose one of the following options for Job:
• Select to display the job or jobs in the grid.
• Show All Records
Select this option if you want to define additional costs for multiple jobs on the
work order.
5. Click Add Additional Cost.
6. Specify this information:
Cost Description - Specify a cost description.
Activity - Select an activity. The system automatically populates Activity if the work
order has only one associated activity and it is not deferred.
Job - Select a job. The system automatically populates Job if the work order has only
one associated job.
Cost Type - Select one of the following options:
• Part
• Own Labor
• Hired Labor
Date - Specify the date of the additional cost if you use multiple equipment.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for the additional cost if this is a multiple
equipment work order. The system automatically populates Equipment Org. and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

651 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Related Work Order.
7. Click Submit.
Records cannot be deleted on the Additional Costs page. Therefore, enter negative
costs to make corrections. The negative costs are not validated against the positive posts,
i.e., there may be a part cost of 10 and another part cost of -15.

Managing repairs for work orders
Add, modify, or delete repairs for work order activities and jobs. Specify the reason for the
repair, the work performed, and the components repaired.
To manage repairs for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to manage repairs, and then click the Repairs tab.
3. Click Add Repair.
4. Specify this information:
Activity - Select the activity for which to add repairs.
Job - Select the job of the activity for which to add repairs if applicable.
Reason for Repair - Specify the reason the repair is necessary.
Work Accomplished - Specify the work performed towards the repair.
Include on Warranty Claim - Select if the repair is covered under warranty.
Completed - Select if the repair has been completed.
Percent Complete - Specify the percentage of completion for the repair.
System Level - Specify the system on which the repair is to be completed.
Assembly Level - Specify the assembly on which the repair is to be completed.
Component Level - Specify the component on which the repair is to be completed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

652 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Component Location - Specify the component location on which the repair is to be
completed.
Repair Comments - Enter any comments on the repair as necessary.
5. Click Submit.

Creating a labor requisition
Create a labor requisition from a work order activity to hire labor for an activity from an
external source. To create a labor requisition for a work order activity, select Hired Labor for
the Activity and specify a Labor Type. The system then displays each hired labor activity on
the Create Labor Requisition popup enabling you to select the activities for which to create a
labor requisition.
To create a labor requisition:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to create a labor requisition, and then click the
Activities tab.
3. Click Create Labor Requisition.
4. Specify this information:
Requisition Description - Enter a description of the requisition.
Store - Enter the Store requesting the labor.
Requested By - Enter the employee requesting the labor.
5. Select the activity for which to create a labor requisition. You may select multiple
activities as necessary.
6. Click Create Requisition. Equipment is populated with All Equipment (on the
requisition header), Activity, Labor Type, Task Plan, Supplier and Supplier Org.
If you are creating a labor requisition for a multiple equipment work order, the
system creates a requisition line for each selected activity and copies the Equipment
value selected for the hired labor activity to the requisition line.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

653 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The requisition/line information is applied only to the activity lines on the multiple
equipment header and not to the Related Work Order activities.
7. Click Cancel.

Scheduling labor for work orders
Schedule labor hours for each work order activity by trade, by shift, and/or by employee.
Hours can only be scheduled for work orders with activities.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to schedule labor, and then click the Schedule Labor
tab.
3. Click Add Schedule.
The system automatically populates Activity-Trade with the activity-trade performing
the work for the selected work order. The system populates Scheduled Date with the
scheduled start date of the work order activity; Scheduled By with the name of the
current user; Completed with the current setting of the Completed check box for the
selected Activity-Trade; Act. Est. Hours with the number of hours planned for the work
order activity; Act. Sched. Hours with the number of hours scheduled for the work
order activity; and Act. Actual Hours with the total hours booked to date for the work
order activity. When the work order activity is defined as requiring tools, the system
automatically selects Tools for new and existing labor schedules.
If the work order has multiple activities, you must select the Activity-Trade to
schedule from the drop-down list.
If the project on the work order header is flagged as Frozen, you may not add or delete
labor schedules, and the system displays all fields as read-only.
4. Enter one of the following:
• Employee - Specify the personnel to schedule to perform the work. The system
automatically populates the employee description and Department.
• Crew - Specify the crew to schedule to perform the work.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

654 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If a crew's expiration date is empty, the crew will never expire. Crew
records will not display if a crew's expiration date is less than the current date.
• Scheduled Date - Specify the date on which to schedule the work. You cannot
schedule work for any date earlier than today’s date.
• Scheduled Hours - Specify the estimated number of hours to complete the work.
The number of hours must be between 0 and 24.
• Start Time / End Time - Specify the scheduled start time and end time of the work
order activity.
• Shift - Specify the shift to perform the activity on the scheduled date.
5. Specify this information:
Maintenance Equipment - Enter the auxiliary equipment needed for the task, i.e., the
equipment is not used in production. The system automatically populates Equipment
Org.
6. Enter additional comments about the schedule.
7. Click Submit.
You may delete an existing labor schedule that is scheduled for the current date or
later if you have made an error entering the data and if you have access rights for deleting the
labor schedule. Also, you may only delete labor schedules that have not been frozen or
completed.

Copying an existing labor schedule
You may copy an existing labor schedule and update it as necessary.
To copy an existing labor schedule:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to copy a labor schedule, and then click the Schedule
Labor tab.
3. Select the labor schedule to copy, and then click Copy Schedule.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

655 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system automatically populates Employee and Activity-Trade with the
employee and activity-trade performing the work for the selected work order. The
system also populates Act. Est. Hours with the number of hours planned for the work
order activity; Act. Sched. Hours with the number of hours scheduled for the work
order activity; and Act. Actual Hours with the total hours booked to date for the work
order activity.
4. Specify this information:
Employee - Specify the personnel to schedule to perform the work. The system
automatically populates the employee description to correspond with the selected
employee.
Scheduled Date - Specify the date on which to schedule the work. You cannot schedule
work for any date earlier than today’s date.
Scheduled Hours - Specify the estimated number of hours to complete the work. The
number of hours must be between 0 and 24.
5. Click Submit.

Adding equipment to work orders to split work order costs
Add equipment to work orders to split costs across equipment on the work order. When
creating a work order, you must specify an equipment on the work order header. However,
you can add additional equipment to the work order (including the equipment on the header)
to which to distribute work order costs.
When applying work order costs to multiple equipment work orders (for booked labor, issue
parts, etc.), specify a value for Equipment on forms within the system where work order costs
are accrued to indicate whether the costs should be distributed evenly across all work order
equipment, a specific equipment, or only the work order header equipment.
There are two types of work orders related to the addition of multiple equipment records to
work orders for distributing work order costs: a "multiple equipment work order" and a
"multiple equipment child (MEC)" work order. There are many references to these two types
of work orders in the user documentation. See the following descriptions for clarification of the
two types:
• Multiple equipment work orders

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

656 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Multiple equipment work orders are work orders to which at least one equipment has
been added on the Equipment page of the Work Orders form to distribute the work
order costs across the equipment records. When the first equipment record is added to
the Equipment page of the Work Orders form, Multiple Equipment is automatically
selected on the work order header.
• Multiple equipment child (MEC) work orders
An MEC work order is the work order type that is assigned to a Related Work Order
that is automatically created for each equipment record added to the Equipment page
of the Work Orders form. Upon saving the equipment to the work order, the Related
Work Order (of type Multiple Equipment Child) is generated for the equipment. The
Related Work Order, which can be viewed on many forms within the system, then
enables you to track work order costs at both the work order and equipment level.
For example, if you add EQUIP-001 and EQUIP-002 to the Equipment page of the Work
Orders form, a Related Work Order of type MEC is generated for both EQUIP-001and
EQUIP-002 when you save the work order, e.g., work order numbers 50001 for EQUIP-001
and 50002 for EQUIP-002.
In the user documentation, all references to "MEC work order" or "related work order"
are to the type of work order that is automatically created for equipment records added to the
Equipment page of the Work Orders form.
By default MEC work orders are not displayed on the List View page of the Work Orders
form. You must use the Dataspy to access MEC work orders.
To add equipment to work orders to split work order costs:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to add equipment, and then click the Equipment tab.

• If you selected a work order that already has child work orders on the Children
page of the Work Orders form and are not MEC work orders, all of the information
on the Equipment page is protected.
• If the PMRVCTRL installation parameter is set to YES and the work order on the
header is a PM work order, then all of the fields on the Equipment page are

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

657 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

protected. You cannot add or remove a PM work order equipment from the work
order if PM Revision Control is in use.
• If the ROUTEEOB installation parameter is set to Y, and the parent work order is
associated with an equipment route, then all of the route equipment and
corresponding work orders are displayed in the grid, and they are protected.
3. Click Add Equipment.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment to add to the work order.
You can retrieve multiple equipment to the work order using the Equipment
lookup.
Click Add WO Header Equipment to add the equipment on the work order header to
the Equipment list to distribute costs to the header equipment. The work order costs are
not automatically distributed to the equipment on the work order header. You must add
the header equipment to the Equipment list to include the header equipment in the work
order cost distribution.
Click Import Route Equipment to select an existing equipment route from which to
populate equipment.
Warranty is automatically selected on each MEC work order and each activity if the
Equipment on the MEC work order is under warranty.
Duplicate equipment records are only allowed to be added to the Equipment list if the
parent work order is route-based and the ROUTEEOB installation parameter is set to Y.
Department - Specify the department of the equipment.
Location - Specify the location of the work to be performed.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the work order.
From Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record from which to begin the
reference.
Ref. Description - Specify the description for the From Point reference.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

658 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Geographical Ref. - Specify the geographical reference for the From Point reference.
To Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record from which to end the
reference
Ref. Description - Specify the description for the To Point reference.
Geographical Ref. - Specify the geographical reference to the To Point reference.
Inspection Direction - Specify the direction in which to begin the inspection on the
linear equipment.
Flow - Specify the direction in which the travel flows along the linear equipment, e.g.,
cars traveling on the linear equipment record for Highway 185 are traveling in the NorthSouth flow direction.
5. Optionally, select the Safety check box if this work requires special safety precautions.
6. Optionally, select the Warranty check box to indicate the equipment is covered under
manufacturer warranty.
7. Click Submit.
• The following fields are populated on the MEC work order(s) from the parent work
order: Organization, Description, Type, Status, Duration, Priority, Problem
Code, Entered By, Sched. Start Date, Date Reported, Class, and Class Org.
• The following fields are populated on each MEC work order from the Equipment
on the MEC work order: Equipment, Type, System Status, Equipment Type,
Equipment System Type, Equipment, Equip. Organization, Location,
Location Organization, Department, Cost Code, Criticality, and Safety.
• Parent Work Order and Route Parent (in the database only) are automatically
populated with the work order number (on the header).
• The following fields are populated from the activities on the parent work order to
each MEC work order: Activity, Start Date, Trade, Task, Hired Labor, People
Required, Duration, Task Qty. (UOM), Reason for Repair, Work
Accomplished, Technician, Part Failure, Manufacturer, System Level,
Assembly Level, Component Level, Supplier, and Supplier Org.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

659 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Work order planning information is not copied to related work orders. Therefore,
Estimated Hours, Hours Remaining, and Task Qty. are set to 0 for all the activities on
any created related work order(s).
• Add additional equipment to the work order as necessary.
• If the AUTODMEC installation parameter is set to YES, then the MEC work order is
deleted from the system altogether.

Importing equipment from an existing equipment route to work
orders
Import route equipment to quickly add equipment to a work order.
To import equipment from an existing equipment route to work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to import route equipment, and then click the
Equipment tab.
3. Click Import Route Equipment.
4. Select the route from which to import the route equipment, and then click OK.

• If the equipment on the selected equipment route already exists in the list of equipment
added to the work order, the system does not retrieve the duplicated equipment record
to the work order. See Adding equipment to work orders to split work order costs.
• If the equipment on the selected equipment route is duplicated within the route itself, the
system only retrieves one record for the duplicated equipment to the equipment list for
the work order.
• If no equipment are associated with the selected equipment route, the system will not
add any equipment records to the list of equipment on the work order.

Associating qualifications with work order activities
Associate qualifications of trades and tasks with work order activities to establish the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

660 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

qualifications required for employees performing work. Qualification enforcement is
determined by the WOQUAL installation parameter.
When you select a trade and/or a task code for a work order activity, any qualifications
associated with the selected trade and/or task to the work order activity are automatically
retrieved. You can also associate qualifications directly with the work order activity to enforce
additional qualification requirements for the work order activity that are not inherited from the
trade or task.
To associate qualification with work order activities:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order with which to associate qualifications, and then click the
Qualifications tab.
3. Click Add Qualification. Activity-Trade, Task, and Source are automatically
populated.
The activity-trade is only populated if one activity-trade exists. When two or
more exist, Activity-Trade is empty.
4. Specify this information:
Activity-Trade - Select the appropriate activity-trade for the work order.
Qualification - Specify the qualification to associate with the work order activity. The
description of the qualification and the qualification Organization are automatically
populated.
Removed is selected for any qualifications that are retrieved to the work order
activity from a task/trade to indicate that the qualification is no longer associated with its
original Source (the trade record on the Trades form or the task record on the Tasks
form). You can only delete work order activity qualifications inherited from a trade/task
for which Removed is selected or that are activity specific (not inherited from a
trade/task).
5. Click Submit.

Importing unlinked qualifications

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

661 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Import additional trade and task qualifications that are not already linked to the work order
activity.
To import unlinked qualification:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to import unlinked qualifications, and then click the
Qualifications tab.
You must enter an activity for the work order before you associate a
qualification.
3. Click the Actions button, and then select Import Unlinked Qualifications.
4. Specify this information:
Activity - Select the activity defined for the selected work order.
Job - Select the job defined for the activity.
5. Choose one of the following options:
• Import From Trade - Click to import trade qualifications. Any qualifications for the
trade that are not already linked to this work order activity are retrieved and
Source is populated with Trade for each retrieved qualification. Unlinked Trade
Qualifications is automatically populated with the number of qualifications
associated with the trade selected for the work order activity that are not already
linked to the work order activity.
• Import From Task Plan - Click to import task qualifications. Any qualifications are
retrieved for the task that were not previously linked to this work order activity and
Source is populated with Task Plan for each retrieved qualification. Unlinked
Task Qualifications is populated with the number of qualifications associated with
the task selected for the work order activity that are not already linked to the work
order activity.

Booking labor for work orders
Record the number of hours that employees worked for each work order activity. You may
book labor hours before closing work orders or until a specified number of days after closing

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

662 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

work orders.
Hours can only be booked against work orders with activities.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to book labor, and then click the Book Labor tab.
3. Click Add Labor.
4. Specify this information:
Activity-Trade - Select the activity-trade performing the work for which to book labor
hours.
You can also select the task for which the work is performed to differentiate
between multiple activities on the work order that may be assigned to the same trade.
Specify the following:
• Employee(s) - Specify the personnel performing the work for which to book hours.
You may select more than one employee.
• Crew - Specify the crew performing the work for which to book hours.
If a crew's expiration date is empty, the crew will never expire. Crew
records will not display if a crew's expiration date is less than the current date.
• Current Crew - If an employee is specified as performing the work for which to
book hours and the employee is assigned to one or more crew(s) for the date
worked, specify the crew under which the employee’s booked labor hours will
apply.
This field may only be entered if the user specifies an employee when
booking hours. Any updates to the Date field will cause this field to be refreshed.
• Department - Specify the department where the activity was performed.
• Trade - Specify the trade that performed the activity.
• Date Worked - Specify the date on which the work was performed.
• Type of Hours - Select the type of hours worked (e.g., normal rate, overtime rate,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

663 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

etc.).
Rate - Specify or modify the hourly pay rate for the employee, trade, or crew
performing the work. If you defined a trade rate for the selected employee or trade,
Rate is automatically populated with the appropriate hourly rate. If you selected a
Crew, Rate is not populated; when you submit the booked labor, the trade rate for
each employee on the crew is reviewed.
If you defined a trade rate for the selected Employee, Rate is populated with the
employee trade rate. However, if you did not define trade rates for the selected
Employee, Rate is populated with the trade rate defined for the selected Trade. If
you enter a Rate for the selected Crew, the system overrides the trade rate
defined for each employee on the crew if the calculated rate is zero.
Hours Worked - Specify the number of hours spent performing the work.
Start Time / End Time - Specify the scheduled start time and end time of the work
order activity. If the end time will span beyond midnight, two booked labor records
will be created.
The WOBKMIDN organization option must be set to Yes to book labor
across midnight. Contact your system administrator for more information.
Equipment - Specify one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Specify a specific Equipment record to apply the booked labor to the selected
Equipment and its corresponding related work order.
If you are making corrections to booked labor for a multiple equipment
work order and you select All Equipment or a specific equipment record for
Equipment, the booked hours are split and the correction is applied to all the
equipment on the work order or the selected equipment.
• Specify All Equipment to evenly split the booked labor to each equipment record
on the work order for the selected work order and activity. Upon saving the
transaction, labor booking records are created and applied to each related work
order and selected activity. The number entered for Hours Worked is divided by
the number of equipment records added on the Equipment tab of the Work
Orders page to determine the booked labor to apply to each equipment. The Rate

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

664 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

applicable to the multiple equipment work order is also applied to all of the MEC
work orders.
Any remainder of the Hours Worked are applied to the last equipment
record on the Equipment tab of the Work Orders page.
If you select All Equipment for Equipment and at least one of the related work
orders has a Completed status (or equivalent user status), a message is displayed
enabling you to select whether to split the labor hours against only equipment with
open related work orders or against all equipment, regardless of whether the
related work orders are Open or Completed (or their user-status equivalents).
Also, the setting of the COMDAYS installation parameter is disregarded when
posting labor booking transactions related work orders if you select All
Equipment.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to apply the booked labor to the work order
header only.
5. Click Submit.
After submitting the transaction, the original booked labor transaction entered when
the Hours Worked are split across multiple equipment records is not displayed. Instead, the
booked labor transactions for each equipment to which the labor was split are displayed.

Booking vendor hours for work orders
Record the number of hours that vendors worked for each work order activity. You may book
vendor hours before closing work orders or until a specified number of days after closing work
orders.
Hours can only be booked against work orders with activities.
Hours cannot be booked against work orders with a system status of Q (Work Request) or
work orders that are part of a scheduling session.
The setting of the COMDAYS installation parameter indicates the number of days you can
book hours after a work order is completed. If the number of days between the completion
date of the work order and the current system date is greater than the value specified for
COMDAYS, you are not allowed to book hours for a work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

665 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to book vendor hours, and then click the Book Vendor
Hours tab.
3. Click Add Vendor Time.
4. Specify this information:
PO-Line - Specify the PO-line for which to book vendor hours.
Depending on the Type of the purchase order line, the system also automatically
populates or protects the following additional fields.
If Type is ST (Hours from service), the system automatically populates Activity-Trade,
Act. Estimated Hours, and Act. Hours Remaining. The system automatically protects
% Received and Received. The system automatically populates Rate based on the
selected PO-Line. You may modify Date Worked and Hours Worked as necessary.
If Type is ST (Hours from service) and the work order is a multiple equipment work
order, the system protects and populates Equipment, Equipment Org., and Related
Work Order from the selected PO-Line.
If Type is SF (Fixed price), the system automatically populates Activity-Trade, Act.
Estimated Hours, and Act. Hours Remaining. The system automatically clears and
protects Hours Worked and Rate. The system automatically populates Received
based on the selected PO-Line. You may modify Date Worked, % Received, and
Received as necessary.
If Type is SF (Fixed price) and the work order is a multiple equipment work order, the
system protects and populates Equipment, Equipment Org., and Related Work Order
from the selected PO-Line.
If Type is SH (Contractor hire), the system automatically clears and protects %
Received, Received, and Rate. The system automatically populates Received based
on the selected PO-Line. You may modify Date Worked, Hours Worked, and ActivityTrade as necessary.
If Type is SH (Contractor hire) and the work order is a multiple equipment work order,
the system enables Equipment and it is required. The system automatically selects All
Equipment for Equipment, and protects Equipment Org. and Related Work Order. If

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

666 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

you select WO Header Equipment for Equipment, the system populates Related
Work Order with the selected work order. If you select a specific Equipment, then the
system populates Equipment Org. and Related Work Order from the selected
Equipment.
Employee - Specify the personnel performing the work for which to book vendor hours.
The system automatically populates the employee description in the adjacent field.
The setting of the BOOPLAN installation parameter determines the manner in
which the system populates information from employee records and activity-trade
records for booked hours.
Date Worked - Specify the date the hours were worked.
Type of Hours - Specify the type of hours worked (e.g., normal rate, overtime rate,
etc.).
Hours Worked - Specify the number of hours spent performing the work.
If you enter a positive value for Hours Worked, the system populates Start Time and
End Time. If you enter a negative value or delete the Hours Worked, then the system
clears Start Time and End Time.
You can only book vendor labor hours against an MEC work order from the
parent multiple equipment work order.
Rate - Specify the hourly pay rate for the vendor performing the work.
Units - Specify the quantity of the task being ordered. For example, if you entered 3
hours as the Estimated Hours for the Task, then the 3 hours represents one unit.
If no value is entered for Hours Worked, then the system calculates the Hours Worked
based on the Units entered as follows:
If Type is SH and you enter a value for Units, the system populates Hours Worked
based on the following equation:
Hours Worked = (Units/Act. Units) x Act. Estimated Hours
If Type is SF and you enter a value for Units, then the system populates Hours
Worked based on the following equation:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

667 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Hours Worked : Received = (Units/Act. Units) x Ordered
Specify the scheduled Start Time and End Time of the work order activity.
Activity-Trade - Select the activity-trade performing the work for which to book vendor
hours.
Equipment - Specify one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
All Equipment - Select All Equipment to evenly split the booked vendor hours to each
equipment record on the work order for the selected work order and activity. Upon
saving the transaction, the system creates labor booking records and applies them to
each related work order and selected activity. The system divides the number entered
for Hours Worked by the number of equipment records added on the Equipment page
to determine the booked labor to apply to each equipment. The Rate applicable to the
multiple equipment work order is also applied to all of the MEC work orders.
Equipment is populated with All Equipment if the Type is SH, otherwise the
system populates Equipment from the associated PO-Line.
The system automatically applies any remainder of the Hours Worked to the last
equipment record on the Equipment tab of the Work Orders page.
If you select All Equipment for Equipment and at least one of the related work orders
has a Completed status (or equivalent user status), the system displays a message
enabling you to select whether to split the labor hours against only equipment with open
related work orders or against all equipment, regardless of whether the related work
orders are Open or Completed (or their user-status equivalents).
Also, the system disregards the setting of the COMDAYS installation parameter when
posting labor booking transactions on related work orders if you select All Equipment.
WO Header Equipment - Select WO Header Equipment to distribute the booked
vendor hours to the selected Work Order only.
Enter a specific Equipment record to distribute the booked vendor hours to the selected
Equipment and the corresponding Related Work Order only.
Although Equipment is only editable when the Type is SH, the system still
distributes costs for the booked vendor hours to the Equipment populated from the PO-

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

668 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Line for Type SF and ST.
If you are making corrections to booked labor for a multiple equipment work order and
you select All Equipment or a specific equipment record for Equipment, the system also
splits the booked hours and applies the correction to all the equipment on the work
order or the selected equipment. See Adding equipment to work orders to split work
order costs.
% Received - Specify the percentage of time received. You may only enter this
percentage if the Type is SF (Fixed price).
When you enter a value for % Received, Received is populated based on the following
equation:
Received = (% Received/100) x Ordered
If the % Received value results in a Received value that exceeds the fixed
price of the referenced purchase order (or the remaining balance thereof), a warning
message is displayed. Click Yes to continue and save the changes or click No to
continue without saving.
Received - Specify the value of time received.
5. Click Submit.

Booking labor by employee
Book labor by employee to record the hours required for an employee to perform work orders
and non-WO time.
To book labor by employee:
1. Select Work > Process > Book Labor By Employee.
2. Specify the employee code for which to book hours.
The employee’s name is automatically populated in the adjacent field, as well as WO
Organization, Date Entered, Equipment, Equipment Org., Related Work Order, Act.
Estimated Hours, Act. Hours Remaining, Act. Regular Hours Worked, and Act. OT
Hours Worked.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

669 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Add Labor.
4. Specify this information:
WO-Activity - Specify the work order performed by the employee, and then enter the
work order activity in the adjacent field. The description for the selected work order is
automatically populated.
You cannot book hours for work requests or PMs.
Department - Specify the department associated with the work order.
Trade - Specify the trade associated with the work order.
Date Worked - Specify the date the work order was performed.
Type of Hours - Specify the type of hours completed for the work order.
Use Non-WO Time to record sick, vacation, or travel time.
Rate - Specify or modify a pay rate for the employee performing the work order. Rate is
automatically populated for the employee if a trade rate or employee rate are
established in the system.
Rate can only be modified if the default rate is 0 or null.
If you make changes to Department, Trade, or Type of Hours, the value of Rate is
edited.
Hours Worked - Specify the number of hours the work order was performed.
Start Time / End Time - Specify a start time and end time for the work order. If the end
time will span beyond midnight, two booked labor records will be created.
The WOBKMIDN organization option must be set to Yes to book labor across
midnight. Contact your system administrator for more information.
5. Click Submit.
If the work order is a multiple equipment child work order, Equipment, Equipment
Org., and Related Work Order are automatically populated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

670 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Booking labor for work orders in a batch
Book labor to work orders during batch work order updates.
To book labor for work others in batch
1. Select Work > Process > Batch Work Order Updates.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify an organization for the work orders to update.
Allow Trade Rate to be Zero - Select to allow the system to apply a zero trade rate if
the system does not find a value for trade rate.
Include Transactions on Completed Multiple Equipment Child Work Orders Select to include transactions on multiple equipment child work orders that are both
released and completed.
Work Order - Specify the code identifying the work order for which to book labor.
Activity - Specify the activity.
Employee - Specify the employee.
Department - Specify the department.
Trade - Specify the trade.
Date Worked - Specify the date the work order was performed.
Type of Hours - Specify the type of hours completed for the work order.
Hours Worked - Specify the number of labor hours performed for the work order.
Equipment - Specify the equipment used for the work order. The system automatically
populates Equipment Org. and Related Work Order if you selected Equipment.
If you edit Equipment, the system clears the values for Equipment Org. and
Related Work Order.
Start Time - Specify the start time for the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

671 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

End Time - Specify the end time for the work order.
3. Click Update Work Order. The system automatically populates Error Message.
Click Copy Line to copy the information from the currently selected row to the next
available row. Click Clear Line to delete the information from the selected row.

Managing tools for work orders
Add, delete, modify, or view lists of tools associated to work order activities and jobs. Using
the tool records, create planned tools for work orders, scheduled tools for work orders, or
both.
Manually add tools to work order activities that do not have an associated task plan, or to
work order activities for which the task plan is not enabled for enhanced planning.
View tools associated to the work order task plan if the task plan is enabled for enhanced
planning.
To manage tools for regular work order:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to manage tools, and then click the Plan Tools tab.
3. Select the Activity for which to manage tools.
If Job is set to Show All Records, Job is automatically populated, protected,
and set to Show All Records.
4. Select the Job of the activity for which to manage tools.
5. Click Add Tool.
6. Specify this information:
Activity - Select the activity for which to manage tools. Job is automatically populated.
Tool - Enter the tool to add to the work order. The tool description and Tool Org. are
automatically populated.
Hours Requested - Enter the number of hours estimated to use the tool to complete

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

672 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the activity.
Qty. Required - Enter the tool quantity estimated to complete the activity. Total Hours
Required and Activity Duration are automatically populated.
7. Click Submit.

Viewing and entering results of checklists for work orders
View a checklist for a work order activity to verify the progress or completion of the checklist.
Alternately you may enter results for a checklist of a work order activity. To enter results for
checklist items associated to the work order, the work order must have a status of Released.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view checklists, and then click the Checklist tab.
3. Optionally, select the work order activity for the checklist item, or select Show All
Records to display all of the work order activity records that are not flagged as deferred
but that have an associated checklist.
4. Optionally, select the specific job of the work order activity for the checklist item, or
select Show All Records to display all of the job records for the work order activity that
are not flagged as deferred but that have an associated checklist.
5. Specify this information:
Activity - Specify the work order activity for which to view checklists.
6. View the information.
7. Specify results of the checklist based on the checklist item:
Completed
• Select the check box if Type is Checklist Item.
• Select Yes or No if Type is Question.
• Enter Finding if Type is Qualitative.
• Enter Value if Type is Quantitative or Meter Reading.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

673 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Enter Finding or Value if Type is Inspection.
• Select OK, Repair Needed, or Resolution if Type is OK/Repair Needed.
• Select Good or Poor if Type is Good/Poor.
• Select OK or Adjusted if Type is OK/Adjusted.
• Select OK, Adjusted or Value if Type is OK/Adjusted Measurement.
• Select OK or Nonconformity if Type is Nonconformity Check.
• Select OK, Nonconformity, or Value if Type is Nonconformity Measurement.
• Enter Date or Date/Time if Type is Date.
• Enter Free Text if Type is Text.
• Select Entity Code or Entity Org. if Type is Entity.
• Select Value, UOM, Value 2, or UOM 2 if Type is Dual Quantitative.
Notes - Specify any relevant notes for the checklist item results.
Final Occ. - Select the check box if the results entered represent the final
occurrence of the specific checklist item. This only applies to repeating checklist
items.
Follow-up - Select the check box for specific checklist items to later generate
follow-up work orders for the checklist item.
8. Click Create Follow-up WO to generate follow-up work orders for previously entered
results, where Follow-up is selected.
9. Optionally, click View Comments to view comments related to the task plan or job plan
of the work order activity.
10. Optionally, click View Checklist Item Comments for a selected checklist line to view
the comments for that particular checklist item.
11. Optionally, click View Documents to view the documents related to the task plan or job
plan of the work order activity.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

674 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

12. Optionally, click Add/Edit Checklist Item Documents to add or edit the checklist item
documents associated to the selected checklist item.
13. Optionally, click Create Deferred Maintenance to generate deferred maintenance
activities for previously entered results, where Follow-up is selected and Follow-up
Work Order and Deferred Maintenance No. are still blank. For every checklist item
selected, an activity is added to the Deferred Maintenance list, for example, if the
checklist item references a task plan, then the task plan related data is copied to the
deferred maintenance activity.
14. Optionally, click Linear Location Details to specify and adjust location details for linear
equipment on checklists or inspection records.
15. Click Submit.

Identifying detailed location information for equipment on
checklists
Identify, set, and adjust detailed location information of linear equipment on checklists and
inspections, using linear references associated to the equipment.
To identify detailed location information for equipment on checklists:
1. Select Work > Works Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view checklists, and then click the Checklist tab.
3. Optionally, select the work order activity for the checklist item, or select Show All
Records to display all of the work order activity records that are not flagged as deferred
but that have an associated checklist.
4. Optionally, select the specific job of the work order activity for the checklist item, or
select Show All Records to display all of the job records for the work order activity that
are not flagged as deferred but that have an associated checklist.
5. Click Actions, and then select Linear Location Details to identify and set linear
reference points for relevant equipment.
6. Specify the linear reference point details information:
From Reference Point - Specify the origin or starting point where the work will begin.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

675 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

From Offset - Specify the offset of the point of origin, i.e., the amount in distance it is
offset from the starting point of the work to the reference point.
From Offset % - Alternatively, specify the offset indirectly by entering a percentage of
the distance between two reference points.
From Offset Direction - Specify the direction of the offset relative to the origin point,
e.g., North or South.
To Reference Point - Specify the ending point on the route where the work will
conclude.
To Offset - Specify the ending point of the offset of the segment, i.e., the amount of
distance it is offset from the ending point of the linear equipment record.
To Offset % - Specify the percentage the ending (to) point is offset.
To Offset Direction - Specify the direction the ending point is offset from the linear
equipment record, e.g., East or West.
7. Optionally, in the Additional Reference Details section, specify this information to map
the coordinates where the work will begin:
From X Coordinate - Specify the X coordinate on the map for the starting (from) point
of the work, e.g., the origin of the work.
From Y Coordinate - Specify the Y coordinate on the map for the starting (from) point
of the work, e.g., the origin of the work.
From Latitude - Specify the latitude on the map for the starting (from) point of the work.
From Longitude - Specify the longitude on the map for the starting (from) point of the
work.
From Relationship Type - Specify the relationship type of the starting (from) point of
the work, e.g., parallel, perpendicular, crossing, overpass.
From Horizontal Offset - Specify the horizontal distance to the work, e.g., the fire
hydrant could be 40 feet away from the edge of the road with the starting point being the
fire hydrant.
From Horizontal Offset Type - Specify the type of horizontal offset, e.g., North, South,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

676 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Right, Left, etc.
From Vertical Offset - Specify the vertical distance to the work, e.g., the traffic light
could be hanging 20 feet above the road with the starting point being the traffic light.
From Vertical Offset Type - Specify the type of vertical offset, e.g., Above, Below,
Underground, etc.
8. Click Submit.

Planning labor for work orders
Plan the labor necessary to complete a work order and it's activities and jobs. Plan both
internal and external labor.
The work order must have at least one activity to plan labor on this page. Use this
page to plan labor for work order activities or activity jobs but not both.
To plan labor for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to plan labor, and then click the Plan Labor tab.
3. Choose one of the following options for Activity:
• Select to display the work order activity or activities in the grid.
• Show All Records - Select this option if you want to plan labor for multiple
activities on the work order.
4. Choose one of the following options for Job:
• Select to display the job or jobs in the grid.
• Show All Records - Select this option if you want to plan labor for multiple jobs on
the work order.
5. Click Add Plan Labor.
6. Specify this information:
Activity - Select the activity for which to plan the labor. Activity is automatically

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

677 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

populated if the work order has only one associated activity and it is not deferred.
Job - Select the job for which to plan the labor. Job is automatically populated if the
work order has only one associated job.
Trade - Specify the trade required to perform the activity or job.
Estimated Hours - Specify the hours estimated to complete the labor.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to complete the labor.
Hours Remaining - Specify the estimated number of hours remaining for the activity.
Hired Labor - Select to indicate that the job will be completed by an external source.
Labor Type - Select the type of labor needed if you selected Hired Labor.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the activity or job.
7. Click Submit.
To create a labor requisition for the work order activity to hire labor for the activity
from an external source, click Create Labor Requisition.

Viewing dispatched labor records for work order activities
View dispatched labor records for work order activities that are created or updated on the GIS
Map WO Dispatching screen. Dispatched labor records cannot be created or updated from
this tab.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view dispatched labor records, and then click the
Dispatch Labor tab.
3. View the dispatch labor details.

Adding Documoto details to work order activities and jobs
Add a part line or multiple part lines to a work order activity or job by accessing technical
documents and drawings that are stored in Documoto.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

678 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To access Documoto on this screen you must first perform the following steps:
• Define the work order equipment's Documoto Book ID, Documoto Part ID, and the
Documoto URL on the equipment record. (Assets, Positions, Systems, or Vehicles
forms.)
• Set the organization options for DOCUMURL, DOCUMKEY, and DOCUMUSR on the
Options tab of the Organizations form.
To add Documoto details:
1. Select the activity associated to the specific work order for which to add Documoto
details on the Activities tab of the Work Orders form.
2. Click Actions, and then select Add Documoto Details.
3. Select one or more parts from the Documoto technical documents and drawings and
add them to the Documoto shopping cart.
4. Return the shopping cart to HxGN EAM. A pick ticket is automatically created for the
selected work order activity.
For each part selected in Documoto, a part line is created for the work order activity
specified. The HxGN EAM parts flagged as Out of Service will not be available.
The planned quantity for the part line of the work order is populated based on the
quantity requested in the Documoto data.

Managing work orders on the quick entry form
Create, update, and complete work orders on the WO Quick Entry form. When you create a
work order, the system automatically enters a status of Released on the work order header.
Insert and update activities, book labor for existing activities, and issue parts to an activity.
Add or view work order comments and activity comments.

Creating and updating work orders on the quick entry form
1. Select Work > WO Quick Entry form.
2. Specify the Organization for the work order, and then choose one of the following
options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

679 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Options

Description

Create a new work order

Specify a description of the work.

Update or complete an existing
work order

Specify the Work Order to update or complete.

3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment on which the work will be performed.
Status - Specify the status of the work order.
Type - Specify the work order type.
Location - Specify the location of the work to be completed.
Class - Specify the class of the work order.
Problem Code - Specify the code to identify the type of problem.
Shift - Specify the shift during which the work is requested to be performed.
Project-Budget - Specify the project and the project budget to associate with the work
order.
Department - Specify the department.
Safety - Select if this work requires special safety precautions.
Warranty - Select if the equipment is under manufacturer warranty.
Print - Select to print the work order when work orders are batch printed.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order if it has been stored in the system
library. The standard work order activities are copied to the current work order. If the
standard work order is a template, child work orders are created as defined on the
standard work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

680 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Priority - Specify the priority of the work order.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the work order.
Failure Code - Specify the cause of failure for the equipment.
Action Code - Specify the action taken to resolve the problem.
Cause Code - Specify the cause code identifying the cause of the problem.
Downtime Cost - Specify the cost that resulted from the equipment being out of
operation due to failure.
Downtime Hours - Specify the number of hours that the equipment was out of
operation due to failure.
Last Meter Reading is populated with the value of the last meter reading and the unit of
measure of the reading in the adjacent field.
• Trigger Event is populated which indicates the MS Project planning session is
associated with the equipment on the work order.
Reported By - Specify the employee requesting the work.
Date Reported - Specify the date and time that the problem was reported.
If the BOOKDATE installation parameter is set to ON, you are not allowed
to book hours for labor for a date that is earlier than the Date Reported. If
BOOKDATE is set to OFF, you can book hours without any date restrictions
related to the Date Reported.
Assigned By - Specify the supervisor who assigned the work order.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the work order.
Sched. Start Date - Specify the starting date for the work order.
Sched. End Date - Specify the date the work is scheduled to be complete.
Req. Start Date - Specify the requested starting date for the work order.
Req. End Date - Specify the requested ending date for the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

681 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Start Date - Specify the actual date on which the work order is started.
Date Completed - Specify the actual date on which the work order is completed.
Target Value - Specify the estimated maximum cost for the work order.
Service Request - If populated, the value displayed for Service Request is a
hyperlink to the service request associated with the work order. Click the number
to view the associated service request.
4. Click Save Record.
5. Optionally, perform any of these actions:
• Click Save and Create Another Work Order to save the work order and create a
new work order.
• Click Clear to clear the Work Order Header section.
• Click Create Work Order to create a new work order.
• You may also click Create Activity to add an activity.

Creating activities for work orders on the quick entry form
Insert and update activities, as necessary.
1. Select Work > WO Quick Entry.
2. Choose one of the following options:
• Create a new activity - Specify for Work Order, the work order number for which
to create a new activity. Go to Organization.
• Update an existing activity - Specify for Work Order, the work order number for
which to update an existing activity. Go to Trade.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization.
Work Order Description - Specify a description for the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

682 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment - Specify the equipment.
Status - Specify the status of the work order.
Type - Specify the work order type.
Department - Specify the department.
Activity - Specify an activity number for the activity. Original Deferred WO-Activity
and Direct Materials are shown on Deferred Activity.
Trade - Specify the trade required to perform the activity. The system automatically
populates Type of Hours. The system automatically populates Activity with the next
available activity number, Start Date and End Date with the scheduled start and end
dates of the work order, and People Required with a default value of "1."
Estimated Hours - Specify the estimated hours for the activity.
Hours Remaining - Specify the estimated number of hours remaining for the activity.
Specify this information only if you use the American Trucking Association’s Vehicle
Maintenance Reporting System (VMRS), now called EMRS in this application.
Reason for Repair - Specify the reason the vehicle needs repair (Code Key 14).
Work Accomplished - Specify the work performed on the vehicle (Code Key 15).
Technician Part Failure - Specify the reason the technician or supplier thinks the
vehicle failed (Code Key 18).
Manufacturer - Specify the Manufacturer/Supplier Code (Code Key 34) to associate
with the vehicle.
Warranty - Select if the equipment is under manufacturer warranty.
Completed - Select if the activity is completed.
Task Plan - Specify the task plan code for the activity.
Percent Complete - Specify the percentage of work that has been completed for the
activity.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to complete the activity.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

683 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Task Plan Qty. - Specify the required number of units of the task to associate with the
activity, and then select the unit of measure for the Task Plan Qty. in the adjacent field.
For example, a work order activity to pave 100 miles of highway today indicates a Task
Plan Qty. of "100" and a unit of measure of "Miles", whereas the same task plan on
another day indicates only 80 miles due to the steep inclines of the stretch of highway
being paved on that day.
Hired Labor - Select to indicate that the activity will be completed by an external
source.
System Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the system, e.g., brakes, frame,
suspension, needing repair (Code Key 31).
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the subsystem needing repair
(Code Key 32). The values available are based on the system-level code.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the specific component or part
needing repair (Code Key 33). The values available are based on a combination of the
system-level code and the assembly-level code.
4. Click Save Record.
Click Clear to clear the Activity section.

Issuing parts to work orders on the quick entry form
Issue parts to work orders on the WO Quick Entry screen.
1. Select Work > WO Quick Entry.
2. Specify this information:
Work Order - Specify the work order for which to issue parts.
Part - Specify the part to issue to the work order.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, Condition is automatically populated.
Store - Specify the store from which to issue parts.
Bin - Specify the bin from which to issue the parts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

684 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Lot - Specify the lot from which to issue the parts.
Failed Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part that failed.
Part failures are not allowed on an issue for parts tracked by asset.
Date/Time - Specify the desired date and time of the transaction.
Date Failed - Specify the date the part failed.
Failure Notes - Add comments about the part failure.
Transaction Qty. - Specify the number of parts to issue to the work order. The number
must be greater than zero.
Asset ID - Specify the asset ID if the part is tracked by asset.
Problem Code - Specify the code of the problem that required work.
Failure Code - Specify the reason that the part failed.
Action Code - Specify the action taken to correct the part failure.
Cause Code - Specify the problem cause code, i.e., the root cause of the part failure.
3. Click Save Record.
Click View Part Details to view part details for the selected work order.

Managing parts for work orders
Use the Parts page to add parts to work orders, reserve parts for work orders, import a
preplanned parts list, delete a planned part, delete a reservation, or create a parts requisition.
You may also issue or return parts to a work order on the Parts page.

Adding planned parts to work orders
Add planned parts to work orders and edit a part description if the part has not been used in
other parts of the system.
The Edit Parts Description pop-up window is only available for parts with N class
designation. These are new parts created on the selected screen; parts which can have their

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

685 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

description changed. However, when the description is changed the part is no longer
accessible in the Edit Parts Description pop-up for editing.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
The system automatically populates Activity-Trade with the activity-trade performing
the work for the selected work order and populates Store with the store defined for the
department of the work order if available.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add to the work order. The system automatically populates the
part description, Part Org., UOM, Track By Asset, Track By Lot, Total Qty. Available,
and Available.
Available indicates the quantity of the part available in the selected store for the work
order activity. Total Qty. Available indicates the quantity of the part available in the
selected store for the work order activity, as well as the quantity of the part available in
any child stores of the selected store.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Planned Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part planned for the work order activity.
5. Click Submit.
6. Optionally, to edit a part description, click Edit Parts Description. Specify the new part
description, and then click Submit.

Viewing planned part availability for work orders
View planned part availability for work orders to display a list of parts that have been planned
for a work order on the Parts tab of the Work Orders page. See Managing parts for work
orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

686 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To view planned part availability for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view planned part availability, and then click the
Record View tab.
3. Right-click on the form, and then choose View Planned Part Availability. Store is
automatically populated with the default store of the department of the work order.
4. Specify this information:
Store - Specify a different store for which to view part availability information as
necessary.
See the following table when viewing the planned part availability information:

Field

Description

Work Order

The number identifying the selected work order.

Activity

The number identifying the activity on the selected work
order for which the part is planned.

Trade

The trade to which the work is assigned for completion.

Part

The code identifying the part on the work order.

Part Org.

The organization of the part.

Part Description

The description of the part.

Planned Qty.

The Planned Qty. of the part entered on the Parts tab of
the Work Orders page.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

687 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Reserved Qty.

The Reserved Qty. of the part entered on the Parts tab of
the Work Orders page.

Allocated Qty.

The Allocated Qty. of the part entered on the Parts tab of
the Work Orders page.

Used Qty.

The Used quantity of the part entered on the Parts tab of
the Work Orders page.

Available Qty.

The system calculates the Available Qty. of the part as the
difference between the Qty. on Hand of the part in the
selected Store and any allocations of the part that have
been allocated to other work orders, which is displayed in
Allocated Qty. on the Parts tab of the Work Orders page.
Available Qty. normally displays the Qty. on
Hand in the selected Store minus the Allocated Qty. of
the part for all work order/activity combinations except the
selected Work Order and Activity for which you are
viewing the Available Qty.
However, on the Planned Part Availability popup, the
system displays the Available Qty. for multiple activities on
the same work order at the same time. Therefore, the
system calculates the Available Qty. without subtracting
the Allocated Qty. for other activities on the same work
order and the Available Qty. for a given part is the same
for every activity on the selected Work Order.

Total Available Qty.

The system calculates the Total Available Qty. as the sum
of the Available Qty. of the part in the selected Store and
the Available Qty. in all child stores of the selected Store.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

688 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

UOM

The unit of measure of the part.

Direct

Indicates whether the part is designated as a Direct
Purchase part on the Parts tab of the Work Orders page.

Held Qty.

The system calculates Held Qty. as the total quantity of the
part(s) that are being held for the selected Store.
A part is "held" if the part is on a purchase order. If
no purchase order exists for the part, then the "held"
quantity corresponds with a store-to-store issue
transaction.

On Order Qty.

On Order Qty. is calculated as the total remaining quantity
(the quantity ordered minus the Receipt Qty.) on approved
purchase order lines.
Only approved receipts are considered in the
calculation. However, Scrapped Qty. are considered as a
received quantity of the part in the calculation of the
number of parts that still needs to be received for the On
Order Qty.
For parts with the Direct check box not selected, only
purchase order lines of type Stock Purchase are included.
For parts with the Direct check box selected, the only
purchase order lines included are those PO lines of type
Direct Purchase that are associated with the same Work
Order and Activity.

Shortage Qty.

The system calculates the Shortage Qty. based on the
following equation: Shortage Qty. = Used + Held Qty. +
Available Qty. + On Order Qty. – Planned Qty.
If there is no shortage of the part, then the system displays

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

689 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

0 as the Shortage Qty. If there is a shortage of the part,
then the system displays the quantity of the part shortage
as the Shortage Qty. and highlights the value in red.

5. Click Close.

Adding core tracked parts to work orders for repair
A repairable spare work order is a work order for core tracked parts to be repaired internally.
Designate a repairable spare work order as such by selecting Repairable Spare as the work
order Type on the header, and then add the parts to repair on the Repair Parts tab.
If you selected Auto-Assign for a part on the Stores tab of the Parts form, the autoassignment process is followed for the part.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order to which to add a core tracked part, and then click the Repair
Parts tab.
3. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add. Qty. to Repair is automatically calculated based on the
Core Qty. entered for the part on the Repair Details tab of the Parts form.
Store - Specify the store holding the part for repair.
The default Qty. to Repair is automatically calculated when you enter a Store.
You must enter a Store if you want to utilize the auto assignment feature.
If you modify the Store entered for the repair part on the Repair Parts tab of the Work
Orders form, the default Qty. for Repair is automatically recalculated. If you clear the
Store for the repair work order, Qty. for Repair is not cleared. If the Qty. Assigned is
greater than 0, then Store is protected.
Qty. to Repair - Specify the quantity of the part to repair.
After submitting the record, you can update Qty. to Repair based on the
following conditions:
• Qty. to Repair is greater than 0.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

690 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Qty. to Repair is less than or equal to the Qty. for Repair.
• You have received or scrapped parts for this work order.
Qty. Completed - Specify the quantity of the parts on which repairs are
completed.
If the RSPCOMP installation parameter is set to NO, Qty. Completed is
hidden. If the RSPCOMP installation parameter is set to YES, you can modify the
Qty. Completed based on the following conditions after submitting the record:
• You must assign repair details for the full Qty. to Repair.
• Qty. Completed is greater than or equal to 0.
4. Click Submit.

Manually assigning repair details for core tracked parts on work orders
Manually assign repair details for core tracked parts on work orders. If you did not select
Auto-Assign on a core tracked part record, you must manually assign repair details for the
repair parts on work orders. Manually assigning repair details for parts enables you to
designate the store, bin, lot, and asset information to identify the parts to repair and their
location.
You can also change repair details that were created during the system’s automatic
assignment process using the Repair Details popup. See Understanding the auto-assignment
processes for core tracked parts.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order to which to assign repair details for core tracked parts, and then
click the Repair Parts tab.
3. Select the part to which to manually assign repair details. The system automatically
populates the Repair Part Details with the part information.
You can modify Qty. to Repair and Qty. Completed for a repair part if
necessary. If you make any changes to Qty. to Repair or Qty. Completed, you can use
the Repair Details popup to edit Qty. Assigned as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

691 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Assign Repair Details.
If the selected part is not tracked by asset, the system will open the Assign Repair
Details popup. If the part is tracked by asset, the system will open the Assign Asset
Repair Details popup.
The system displays the Part and Part Org. of the selected part. Track by Asset is
selected if the part is tracked by asset.
The system automatically populates Total Qty. to Repair and Total Qty. Assigned.
Total Qty. to Repair indicates the Core Qty. for the part from the Repair Parts tab of
the Work Orders form. The Total Qty. Assigned indicates the quantity of the part to
repair on this work order that has already been assigned from a repair bin location.
5. Select the store, bin, lot, and asset from which to assign a quantity of the part to repair.
6. Specify this information:
Qty. Assigned - Specify the quantity of the part to assign for repair.
The value entered for Qty. Assigned cannot be greater than the quantity of the
part that is in stock for repair.
7. Click Submit.

Manually adding part failure details to work orders
Add, view, modify, and delete part failures on the Part Failures tab. Record details are
normally displayed on the Part Failures tab as the result of an issue or return part being
flagged as a failure. You can also manually add part failure details to work orders.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to add part failure details, and then click the Part
Failures tab.
3. Click Add Part Failure.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part that failed. The system automatically populates the part
description and Part Org.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

692 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Failed Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part that failed.
Asset ID - Specify the asset ID if the part is tracked by asset. The system automatically
populates the description and Asset Org.
Component Location - Specify the component location.
Problem Code - Specify the code of the problem that required work.
Failure Code - Specify the reason that the part failed.
Failure Notes - Enter comments about the part failure.
Date Failed - Specify the date the part failed.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Action Code - Specify the action taken to correct the part failure.
Cause Code - Specify the problem cause code, i.e., the root cause of the part failure.
Failure Mode - Specify the failure mode of the part.
If you modify the existing value for failure mode, the existing values in these
fields are also overwritten unless the same value on the failure mode is blank: Problem
Code, Failure Code, Cause Code, Action Code, Symptom, Tactical Cause, Human
Factor, Workmanship, Human Oversight, and Method of Detection.
The values for Problem Code, Failure Code, Cause Code, and Action Code are
copied only if the Enable for Part Failures check box is selected.
5. Click Submit.

Reserving parts for work orders
To reserve parts for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

693 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Add Part.
The system automatically populates Activity-Trade with the activity-trade performing
the work for the selected work order and populates Store with the store defined for the
department of the work order.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to reserve for the work order. The system automatically populates
the part description, Part Org., UOM, Track By Asset, Track By Lot, Total Qty.
Available, and Available.
Available indicates the quantity of the part available in the selected store for the work
order activity. Total Qty. Available indicates the quantity of the part available in the
selected store for the work order activity, as well as the quantity of the part available in
any child stores of the selected store.
Reserved Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part to reserve for the work order activity.
The number must be greater than 0 (zero).
5. Click Submit.

Importing a parts list for a work order
To import a parts list for a work order:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to import a parts list, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Import Parts List.
4. Specify this information:
From - Select one of the following options:
Work Order EQ - Select to import the part from work order equipment.
Material List - Select to import a material list.
Equipment - Select to import the part from an equipment record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

694 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Child Asset - Select to import the part from a child asset.
Child Asset is only available when the work order header equipment is a
position, has one or more children, and only one of the children is an asset.
Activity-Trade - Select the activity-trade performing the work for which to import a parts
list.
5. Select the parts to import.
6. Click Submit.

Creating a parts requisition
Create a parts requisition to order a part from an external source if the Planned Source of
the part is Direct Purchase. Edit a part description if the part has not been used in other parts
of the system.
The Edit Parts Description pop-up window is only available for parts with N class
designation. These are new parts created on the selected screen; parts which can have their
description changed. However, when the description is changed the part is no longer
accessible in the Edit Parts Description pop-up for editing.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to create a parts requisition, and then click the Parts
tab.
3. Click Create Parts Requisition.
4. Specify this information:
Description - Specify a description of the requisition.
Store - Specify the Store requesting the part.
Requested By - Specify the employee requesting the part.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the part.
5. Select the activity/part for which to create a parts requisition.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

695 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select multiple activities as necessary.
6. Click Create Requisition.
Click Cancel to close the Create Parts Requisition popup without saving
changes.
7. Click Submit.
8. Optionally, to edit a part description, click Edit Parts Description. Specify the new part
description, and then click Submit.

Creating a pick ticket
Create a pick ticket to identify a set of parts that are required for a work order activity.
To create a pick ticket:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to create a pick ticket, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Create Pick Ticket.
4. Specify this information:
Description - Specify a description of the pick ticket.
Store - Specify the store for which to create the pick ticket.
Date Required - Specify the date by which the list of parts is needed.
Status - Select the status of the pick ticket. The system automatically assigns
Unfinished as the status of the pick ticket.
Class - Specify the class of the pick ticket.
Delivery Address - Specify the address to which to deliver the parts.
Deliver to Supplier - Specify the supplier to whom to deliver the parts.
Deliver to Employee - Specify the employee to whom to deliver the parts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

696 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Default Approver - Specify the individual responsible for approving the pick ticket.
5. Select the parts to add to the pick ticket, and then click Create Pick Ticket.
Click Refresh Part List to update the Available Qty. for the selected store and to
reset Required Qty.

Viewing unreturned core parts
View and track core parts issued to a work order, equipment, project-budget or employee for
which a corresponding core was never returned to the store after failing. When core parts
remain outstanding, the value of the core part remains charged against the work order, or to
whatever it was issued. Once the core part is returned the core value is removed from the
work order.
The total value of cores which remain unreturned for a work order can be seen on
the Cost Summary page of the Work Orders form.
To view unreturned core parts:
1. Select Work > Overview > Unreturned Cores.
2. View the unreturned core parts.

Entering monitored data results for work orders
Enter a new work order inspection point (location) for a monitored data object (equipment) or
modify an existing work order inspection point.
To enter monitored data results for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to enter monitored data results, and then click the
Monitored Data Results tab.
3. Click Add Result.
4. Specify this information:
Monitored Equipment - Specify the equipment to monitor. The system populates the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

697 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

description in the adjacent field. The system automatically populates Monitored
Equipment Org.
Aspect - Specify the inspection aspect with which to associate the monitored data
object.
Point Type - Specify the inspection type to associate with the equipment or equipment
category.
Point - Specify the inspection point number.
Date - Specify the date of the inspection.
5. Click Submit.

Issuing and returning parts for work orders
You may issue or return parts to a work order on the Parts page.

Returning parts from work orders
Return unused parts issued to work orders back to stores.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to return parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to return.
Available indicates the quantity of the part available in the selected store for the work
order activity. Total Qty. Available indicates the quantity of the part available in the
selected store for the work order activity, as well as the quantity of the part available in
any child stores of the selected store.
Activity-Trade - Specify the activity-trade performing the work for the selected work
order.
Store - Specify the store to which to return parts.
Transaction Type - Select Return.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

698 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Date - Specify the desired date of the transaction.
Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Specify a specific equipment to which to distribute the return Quantity.
• Specify All Equipment to evenly distribute the return Quantity to each equipment
on the work order.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to distribute the return Quantity to the work order
header only.
Any remainder of the return quantity that cannot be evenly split is
automatically applied to the last equipment record on the Equipment page of the
Work Orders form.
If you select All Equipment and at least one of the related work orders has a
Completed status (or equivalent user status), the system displays a message
enabling you to select whether to distribute the cost of the return against only open
related work orders or against all equipment, regardless of whether the related
work orders are Open or Completed (or their user-status equivalents).
The value displayed for Used in the Parts list displays the quantity of the part
issued/returned for the header work order and all related MEC work orders for the
activity.
The setting of the RTNANY installation parameter can also affect returns for which
there is an insufficient issue quantity against which to make a return when
returning against All Equipment. If RTNANY is set to Yes, the system distributes
the return Quantity evenly across all equipment on the work order. If RTNANY is
set to No, the system does not allow you to make the return if there is an
insufficient quantity of the part.
Quantity - Specify the number of parts to return to the work order. The number
must be greater than 0 (zero).
If the part is tracked by asset, Quantity must be equal to 1.
Asset ID - Specify the asset ID if the part is tracked by asset.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

699 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Bin - Specify the bin to which to return the parts.
Lot - Specify the lot to which to return the parts.
Tool Hours - If the part you are returning is identified as a tool, specify the number
of hours the tool was in use.
If the work order is a MEC work order, then the system splits the tool
hours based on the selected Equipment.
Manufacturer - Specify the manufacturer of the part.
Core Return - Select if the part to return is a repairable spare and you want to
return the part to the store for repair. The system adds the return quantity to the
Core Qty. in the store to which the part is returned when you submit the return.
If you select Return as the Transaction Type and the selected Part is a
repairable spare part, the system enables Return for Repair. If you select Return
for Repair, the system allows part failures and populates Bin with the Default
Repair Bin. If the Default Repair Bin overwrites a different bin, then the system
clears Lot.
If the Part is a repairable spare part that is also tracked by asset and you clear
Return for Repair, Asset ID is cleared.
If you submit a return transaction for a repairable spare part and you clear Return
for Repair, the system processes the return as a normal return.
Manufacturer Part Number - Specify the part number as identified by the
manufacturer.
Failed Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part that failed.
The system does not allow part failures on a Return for parts tracked by
asset or repairable spare.
Date Failed - Specify the date the part failed.
Problem Code - Specify the code of the problem that required work.
Failure Code - Specify the reason that the part failed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

700 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Action Code - Specify the action taken to correct the problem.
Cause Code - Specify the problem cause code or root cause of the problem.
Failure Notes - Specify comments about the failure.
4. Click Submit.

Adding child work orders to a parent work order
Create one or more work orders that are considered children of another work order to identify
the work orders as children of the parent. In some cases, the child work orders are dependent
on the parent work order, which means that the parent work order cannot be completed until
all child work orders have a system Status of Completed.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to add child work orders, and then click the Children
tab.
If the selected work order is a multiple equipment work order or MEC work
order, then the system protects all fields on the page, and they cannot be updated.
3. Click Add Child WO.
4. Specify this information:
Child WO - Specify the work order number to associate with the parent work order. The
system automatically populates the child work order description, Type, Status,
Equipment, Equipment Org., and Equipment Type.
Dependent - Dependent is automatically selected. Clear the check box to indicate that
the child work order is not dependent on the parent.

• If Dependent is selected and the installation parameter EVTCASCD is set to NO,
the parent Work Order cannot be completed unless all of its child work orders are
completed.
• If Dependent is selected and the installation parameter EVTCASCD is set to YES,
completing the parent work order will also complete the Child WO.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

701 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Defining nonconformities for work orders
Define nonconformities for a work order. Nonconformities reference an equipment and can be
tracked through re-inspections.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to define nonconformity header UDFs, and then click the
Nonconformities tab.
This tab uses nonconformity header UDFs. To use nonconformity observation
UDFs, click the Nonconformity Observations tab.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the nonconformity.
Type - Optionally, specify the type of nonconformity.
Status - Specify the status of the nonconformity.
Severity - Optionally, specify the severity of the nonconformity.
Intensity - Optionally, specify the intensity of the nonconformity.
Size - Optionally, specify the size of the nonconformity.
Importance - Optionally, specify the importance of the nonconformity.
Priority - Optionally, specify the priority of the nonconformity.
4. Click Submit.

Importing nonconformities to work orders from equipment
Import nonconformity records from selected equipment to a work order header for repair or reinspection.
To import nonconformities to work orders from equipment:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

702 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order to which to import nonconformities, and then click the
Nonconformities tab.
3. In the Actions menu click Import Nonconformities.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Select the equipment from which to import nonconformity records.
Nonconformity - Specify one or more nonconformities to import to the work order for
re-inspection or repair.
5. Optionally, select the For Repair check box to flag the nonconformity for repair on the
work order. Otherwise the nonconformity is flagged for re-inspection.
6. Click Submit.

Changing the status of nonconformities on work orders
Change the status of one or more nonconformities or nonconformity observations attached to
the work order header.
To change the status of nonconformities on work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to change the status of nonconformities, and then click
the Nonconformities tab.
3. In the Actions menu click Update Status.
4. Specify this information:
Record Type - Select nonconformity or nonconformity observation.
From Status - Specify the beginning status of the nonconformity or nonconformity
observation you are changing.
To Status - Specify the status to which to change the nonconformity or nonconformity
observation.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

703 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Adding permits to work orders
You may associate permits with a work order on the Permits page. You may also view
permits associated with work order equipment.
A work order may not have two active permit lines that refer to the same permit code.
To add permits to work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to add permits, and then click the Permits tab.
3. Click Add Permit. The system automatically selects the Active check box.
The system automatically flags a new permit as Active, and this setting cannot
be changed while adding the permit reference to the work order. You may deactivate
permits after adding the permit if necessary.
4. Specify this information:
Permit - Select the permit to associate with the work order. The system automatically
populates the permit description, Permit Org., Date Printed, Permit Reference, and
Permit Comments to correspond with the selected permit.
Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Specify a specific equipment with which to associate the permit.
• Specify WO Header Equipment to associate the permit with the equipment on the
work order header only.
Click Submit.

• You cannot delete work order permits after they have been added as a permit reference
for the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

704 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To deactivate a permit, select the permit to deactivate, and then click Deactivate
Permit.

Scheduling tools for work orders
Schedule tools from a department for specified work order activities. Record tool
requirements of multiple activities of a specified work order.
To schedule tools for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to request tools, and then click the Schedule Tools tab.
You must enter an activity for the work order before you schedule a tool.
3. Click Add Tool. The system automatically populates Qty. Required and Department.
4. Specify this information:
Activity-Trade - Select the appropriate activity-trade for the work order.
Tool - Specify the tool to request. The system automatically populates the description of
the tool.
Date Required - Specify the date when you need the tool.
Scheduled Hours - Specify the number of hours required to complete the activity.
Qty. Required - Specify the number of tools you need.
Activity-Trade - Select the appropriate activity-trade for the work order.
The system only displays the activity-trade if one activity-trade exists. When
two or more exist, Activity-Trade is empty.
Hours Required - The system calculates and displays the number of tools required
times the number of hours required to complete the activity.
Available Hours - The system displays the hours that the tool is available.
Activity Start Date - The system displays the beginning date for which you need the
tool.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

705 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Activity End Date - The system displays the final date of the activity.
Department - Specify the department associated with this tool. If the tool applies to all
departments, enter *.
Daily Capacity - The system calculates and displays the quantity of tools times the
hours the tool is available to the department.
5. Click Submit.

Recording tool usage for work orders
Record tool usage for work orders to enter the quantity, usage hours, and departmental
information for equipment/parts defined as tools. The costs associated are automatically
calculated with the use of the tool based on the usage and the rates defined for the tool,
department, and organization.
To record tool usage for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to record tool usage, and then click the Tools Usage
tab.
If the status of the work order is Completed (or equivalent user status), the
setting of the TOOLDAYS installation parameter determines whether you can
add/update tool usage for the work order.
3. Click Add Tool Usage.
The system automatically populates Activity-Trade (if there is only one activity on the
work order), Department, Date Used, Quantity, Hours Used, Scheduled Qty.,
Scheduled Hours, Rate, and Costs.
Rate is the default rate for the Department, Organization (of the work order), and Tool.
Costs is calculated as the product of the Quantity, Hours Used, and the Rate.
4. Specify this information:
Tool - Specify the tool for which to add usage information.
Date Used - Specify the date of the tool usage.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

706 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Quantity - Specify the quantity of the tool that was used.
Hours Used - Specify the number of hours the tool was used.
The BOOKDATE installation parameter indicates the manner in which the
system handles entries for Date Used and Hours Used when booking hours for the
tool.
Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• Enter a specific equipment to which to distribute the Hours Used.
• Enter All Equipment to evenly distribute the Hours Used to each equipment
record on the work order.
• Enter WO Header Equipment to distribute the Hours Used to the equipment on
the work order header only.
The system automatically applies any remainder of the Hours Used to
the last equipment record on the Equipment page of the Work Orders page.
If you select All Equipment for Equipment and at least one of the related work
orders has a Completed status (or equivalent user status), the system displays a
message enabling you to select whether to distribute the cost of the tool usage
against all equipment or only open related work orders.
Also, the system disregards the setting of the TOOLDAYS installation parameter
when posting tool usage transactions if you select All Equipment.
The value displayed for Used in the Tools Usage list displays the quantity of the
tool issued for the header work order and all related work orders for the activity.
Activity-Trade - Specify the activity and trade for the work order for which the tool
was used.
Department - Specify the department of the work order for which the tool was
used.
5. Click Submit.
To import a scheduled tool, click Import Scheduled Tools. The system imports

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

707 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

any tools that are scheduled for the work order. If the work order is a multiple equipment
work order, the system creates a record for the work order header for 0 Hours Used,
creates a tool usage record for each of the MEC work orders, and divides the Hours
Used for the tool equally between each of the MEC work orders.

Adding safety hazards and precautions to work orders
Add hazards to work orders to alert your employees to of all the dangers (bodily harm,
environmental issues like spills) they face when performing required maintenance.
Add hazards to work orders to alert your employees to of all the dangers (bodily harm,
environmental issues like spills) they face when performing required maintenance. Attach
precautions to these hazards so they can safeguard themselves and their surroundings from
these potential dangers. For example, if you must maintain electrical equipment, electrocution
is a hazard. Add a precaution to turn that equipment off and remove from the power outlet
before performing repairs on that electrical equipment.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to add safety precautions and hazards, and then click
the Safety tab.
3. Click Add Safety Record.
4. Specify this information:
Hazard - Specify the hazard to add to the work order.
Precaution - Specify the safety measure to protect your employees from the hazard.
Timing - Select the timing which is used to identify when the precaution should be
taken. For example, if your employee is working with fire, you can enter the timing of
"during" to alert the employee that they should wear fire-resistant clothing during the
task.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number which is used to identify the order in which
your employee should be made aware of the precaution. All precautions are important
regardless of the sequence number entered.
Select the Delete Pending check box to delete the pending safety record during the
next review. This check box is enabled when organization option SAFERREQ is set to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

708 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

YES.
Health Hazard - Specify the code based on the Hazardous Materials Code (400) of the
NFPA that indicates the degree to which the materials used poses a hazard to the
health of the employee.
Flammability - Specify the code based on the Hazardous Materials Code (400) of the
NFPA that indicates the degree to which the materials used are flammable.
Instability - Specify the code based on the Hazardous Materials Code (400) of the
NFPA that indicates the degree to which the materials used can detonate or explode.
Special Hazards - Specify the code based on the Hazardous Materials Code (400) of
the NFPA that indicates any special hazards related to the materials used.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to observe the hazards and precautions
for multi-equipment work orders.
Responsibility - Optionally, specify the precaution responsibility code for the employee
responsible for performing the precautions associated with the work order.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing and modifying work orders
Review the status of work orders and/or modify work orders.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. View the list of work orders, and then double-click the row containing the work order to
view or modify.
3. View and modify work order details as necessary. See Creating regular work orders.
4. Click Save Record.

Updating work orders
Update details on a work order in a batch.
To update work orders:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

709 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Process > WO Update.
2. Run the default dataspy. The system displays a list of work orders with a system status
of "R" or "Q" in the editable grid.
3. Select the work orders to update, and then make changes to the following fields as
necessary:
• Description - Update the description of the work order.
• Equipment - Update the equipment on which to perform work.
• Type - Update the work order type.
• Department - Update the department.
• Status - Update the status of the work order.
• Class - Specify the class of the work order.
• Problem Code - Specify the code to identify the type of problem.
• Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the work order.
• Failure Code - Specify the cause of failure for the equipment.
• Action Code - Specify the action taken to resolve the problem.
• Cause Code - Specify the cause code identifying the cause of the problem.
• Priority - Specify the priority of the work order.
• Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the work order.
• Sched. Start Date - Specify the starting date for the work order.
4. Click Update WOs.
To print work order updates, select the work orders to print, and then click Print
Selected WO.

Viewing work order costs

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

710 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View a list of all existing costs for the selected work order and all of its children.
If the work order is a multiple equipment work order, then the system distributes the
costs to any MEC work order(s) associated with the work order based on the value entered
for Equipment on the work order header and the equipment records added to the Equipment
page of the Work Orders form. See Adding equipment to work orders to split work order
costs.
Estimated costs are not copied to related MEC work orders. Therefore, the system
determines the estimated costs for MEC work orders by calculating the quotient of the
estimated costs of the parent work order and the number of equipment records added to the
Equipment page of the Work Orders form.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view costs, and then click the Cost Summary tab.
3. View the work order cost information.
See the following table when viewing work order cost information:

Cost Type

Explanation

Estimated Labor Cost

Activity lines’ estimated hours multiplied by
trade rate when hired labor is unchecked

Estimated Hired Labor

Activity lines’ estimated hours multiplied by
trade rate when hired labor is checked

Estimated Stock Items

Parts associated with the work order that are
not tools or direct purchase

Estimated Services

Price on the purchase order line associated
with the work order

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

711 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Estimated Direct Purchases

Parts associated with the work order when
direct is checked

Estimated Tool Cost

Tool quantity multiplied by hours multiplied by
price for the department

Estimated WO Totals

Sum of all estimated costs

Planned Labor Cost

Remaining hours unless remaining hours is
null; then = 0

Planned Hired Labor

Rate multiplied by estimated hours when hired
is checked, ordered is unchecked,
PLNDRQPO installation parameter is ON, and
is an ST (hours from service) line type or is
undefined and the work order activity is not
associated with a requisition or purchase order
with a line order type of ST (hours from
service). If the PLNDRQPO parameter is OFF,
then the same information as above applies
except the work order activity is not associated
to a purchase order that is approved.
Line types of SH (contractor hire)
would never be part of the planned cost
because they are recorded as the work is
done.

Planned Stock Items

Material list quantity minus quantity of parts
already issued plus quantity returned (net
issued) that is not line type of PD (direct
purchase) and is not a tool

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

712 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Planned Services

The same as Planned Hired Labor except the
line order type is SF (fixed price)

Planned Direct Purchases

Requisition line minus received quantity minus
scrap quantity multiplied by price on the
requisition line when the requisition is not in a
status of canceled, the requisition line type is
PD (direct purchase) and active, and is not on
a purchase order. If it is on a purchase order,
then the value is the order quantity minus the
received quantity minus the scrap quantity
multiplied by price on the purchase order line
plus total extra charges multiplied by the order
quantity minus the received quantity minus the
scrap quantity divided by the order quantity
when the purchase order is not in a status of
canceled or approved and the purchase order
line type is PD (direct purchase) and active.

Planned Tool Cost

Estimated Tool Cost minus Actual Tool Cost

Planned WO Totals

Sum of all planned costs

On Order Labor Cost

N/A

On Order Hired Labor

Order quantity minus received quantity minus
scrap quantity when the order line type is ST
(hours from service), the line is active, and the
purchase order is approved.

On Order Stock Items

N/A

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

713 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

On Order Services

Order quantity minus received quantity minus
scrap quantity when the order line type is SF
(fixed price), the line is active, and the
purchase order is approved

On Order Direct Purchases

Remaining quantity multiplied by price plus
remaining extra charges when the purchase
order is approved, the order line type is PD
(direct purchase), and the order quantity is
greater than zero

On Order Tool Cost

N/A

On Order WO Totals

Sum of all on order costs

Invoice Differences Labor Cost

N/A

Invoice Differences Hired Labor

Difference of actual cost and the invoiced cost
for hired labor

Invoice Differences Stock Items

N/A

Invoice Differences Services

Difference of actual cost and the invoiced cost
for services

Invoice Differences Direct Pur- chases Difference of actual cost and the invoiced cost
for direct purchases

Invoice Differences Tool Cost

N/A

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

714 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Invoice Differences WO Totals

Sum of all invoice difference costs

Actual Labor Cost

Sum of booked hours cost when order line
type is ST (hours from service) or SH
(contractor hire)

Actual Hired Labor

Sum of booked hours costs that are not hired
labor

Actual Stock Items

Sum of transaction line quantity multiplied by
transaction price when the transaction line is a
stock issue, return, or return for repair and is
not a direct purchase

Actual Services

Sum of booked hours costs when order line
type is SF (fixed price)

Actual Direct Purchases

Quantity multiplied by price plus the
proportional amount of extra charges plus the
proportional amount of taxes when the
transaction status is approved and is a direct
purchase minus any proportional return cost.
Proportional is the transaction line quantity
divided by the order line quantity, returning a
fraction that is used as a pro rata multiplier.

Actual Tool Cost

Sum of all tool costs Sum of all actual costs

Actual WO Totals

Sum of all actual costs

Total Cost Labor Cost

Sum of Invoice Differences Labor Cost, Actual

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

715 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Labor Cost, and Planned Labor Cost

Total Cost Hired Labor

Sum of Invoice Differences Hired Labor, Actual
Hired Labor, Planned Hired Labor, and On
Order Hired Labor

Total Cost Stock Items

Sum of Remaining Balance Stock Items and
Actual Stock Items

Total Cost Services

Sum of Planned Services, Invoice Differences
Services, Actual Services, and On Order
Services

Total Cost Direct Purchases

Sum of Planned Direct Purchases, Invoice
Differences Direct Purchases, Actual Direct
Purchases, and Remaining Balance Direct
Purchases

Total Cost Tool Cost

Sum of Planned Tool Cost and Actual Tool
Cost

Total Cost WO Totals

Sum of all WO Totals

Remaining Balance Labor Cost

Estimated Labor Cost minus Total Cost Labor
Cost

Remaining Balance Hired Labor

Estimated Hired Labor minus Total Cost Hired
Labor

Remaining Balance Stock Items

Estimated Stock Items minus Total Cost Stock
Items

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

716 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Remaining Balance Services

Estimated Services minus Total Cost Services

Remaining Balance Direct Purchases

Estimated Direct Purchases minus Total Cost
Direct Purchases

Remaining Balance Tool Cost

Estimated Tool Cost minus Total Cost Tool
Cost

Remaining Balance WO Totals

Estimated Tool Cost minus Total Cost Tool
Cost

Unreturned Core Charges

Total Quantity Issued minus Total Quantity
Returned multiplied by the core value for all
core tracked parts issued to the selected work
order.

See the following table when viewing contractor estimates cost information collected
from work order activities, not actual work order planning:

Cost Type

Explanation

Estimated Labor Costs

Total labor costs estimated on work order
activities

Estimated Material Costs

Total material costs estimated on work order
activities

Estimated Misc. Costs

Total miscellaneous costs estimated on work
order activities

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

717 of 2039

Total Estimated Costs

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Total labor plus materials plus miscellaneous
costs estimated on all work order activities

Viewing child work orders on a parent work order
View a list of child work orders on a parent multiple equipment work order.
To view child work orders on a parent work order:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view child work orders, and then click the Children
tab.
3. Select the child work order for which to view details.
4. View the child work order detail information.

Viewing service request details for work orders
To view the service request details for a work order:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view service request details, and then click the
Service Request Details tab.
3. View the service request details.

Viewing equipment custom fields from a work order
View the Equipment Custom Fields popup from the Work Orders form to see custom fields
associated with equipment on the work order. You can also view child asset custom fields if
the equipment is a position, has one or more children, and only one of the children is an
asset.
To view equipment custom fields from a work order:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

718 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the work order for which to view equipment custom fields, and then click the
Record View tab.
3. Right-click on the form, and then choose View Equipment Custom Fields.
4. View the equipment custom fields information.
5. Optionally, click View Child Asset Custom Fields to view custom fields information for
the one child asset of the equipment.

Viewing purchasing for work orders
View purchasing information for a work order to access a list of detailed information about
requisition and purchase order lines for a specific work order. The system displays information
about Direct Purchase materials on purchase order lines associated with the work order
and/or requisition lines that are associated with the work order that are not yet associated with
purchase order lines.
To view purchasing for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view purchasing, and then click the Purchasing tab.
3. View the purchasing history for the work order.
See Creating requisitions and Creating and revising purchase orders.
If a purchase order line contains a multiple equipment work order, the system
also displays information about how the purchase order is split among the equipment
and related work order(s).

Viewing documents associated to a work order
View an associated document, add or remove a document association, and create or upload
a new document as necessary. You may also associate documents to entities that do not
have a Documents tab and view documents from related sources.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view associated documents, and then click the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

719 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Documents List tab.
3. Choose one of these options as necessary:

Option

Description

To view or edit a document

Click View/Edit Document. Follow steps 4-5.

To associate a document to an
entity

Click Add Document. Follow steps 4-5.

To create or upload a document Click Create/Update Document.
See Uploading documents to the application.

4. Specify this information:
Document - Specify the document to view or edit. The system automatically populates
Document Description.
Print with Report - Select to print the document with the work order report.
5. Click Save.
To remove or modify the document link, click Remove Document Link.

Booking labor for purchase orders
Receive vendor labor for purchase orders.
To book labor for purchase orders:
1. Select Work > Process > Book PO Labor.
2. Specify this information:
Purchase Order - Specify the purchase order for which to book labor. The system
automatically populates the purchase order description in the adjacent field and the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

720 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization.
When Date Worked Outside Activity-Date Range - Select to allow labor bookings for
purchase orders when the date worked falls outside the activity date range.
To be Applied to Completed Multi-Equipment WOs where Equipment is All
Equipment - Select to allow labor bookings for purchase orders to be applied to
completed multi-equipment work orders where Equipment=All Equipment.
PO Line - Specify the line number of the purchase order.
Employee - Specify the personnel performing the work for which to book hours. The
system automatically populates the employee description.
Equipment - Specify the equipment on which to perform labor.
Hours Worked - Specify the number of hours spent performing the work.
Start Time - Specify the scheduled start time of the work order activity.
Booked Labor Description - Specify the description of the booked labor.
Date Worked - Specify the date the labor was performed.
Received - Specify the number of the parts received.
End Time - Specify the scheduled end time of the work order activity.
Work Order-Activity - Specify the work order-activity for the selected PO line.
Type of Hours - Specify the type of hours for the labor.
% Received - Specify the percentage of the lines received on the purchase order.
Task Qty. - Specify the number of units required for the service.
3. Click Book Labor.

Creating capital planning requests
Create capital planning requests to request a capital expenditure. Capital planning requests
are based on forecasted labor costs, forecasted material costs, and expected cost avoidance.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

721 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Capital Planning Request.
2. Click New Record.
3. Provide a description of the capital planning request in the field adjacent to the Capital
Planning Request field.
A unique capital planning request code is assigned when you save the record.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the purchase order belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Status - Specify the status of the capital planning request.
Equipment - Select the equipment for which you are creating the capital planning
request.
WO Type - Choose one of these options:
Breakdown - Select to create a work order in response to an equipment breakdown or
failure.
PM - Select to create a preventive maintenance work order.
Scheduled - Select to create a scheduled work order.
Repairable Spare - Select to create a work order for repairable spare parts. If you are
creating a work order for repairable spare parts, you must also add the parts to repair on
the Repair Parts page.
See Adding core tracked parts to work orders for repair.
Standard WO - Select to create a standard work order.
The work order types listed are standard types in the system. You can also
create user-defined work order types.
Requested By - Specify the employee making the capital planning request
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the work to be completed for the
capital planning request.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

722 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Priority - Select the priority level of the capital planning request.
Sustainability - Select if the capital planning request is related to asset sustainability
features.
Objective - Specify the objective to associate with the capital planning request.
Assigned By - Specify the supervisor who assigned the work order.
5. Specify this Capital Planning Request Details information:
Cost Avoidance - Specify the estimated cost avoidance for the capital planning
request.
Appropriation Date - Specify the date by which the capital request must be
appropriated.
Requested Appropriation Date - Specify the date by which you are requesting the
appropriation of the capital request.
ROI % (Return on Investment) - Specify the return on investment percentage for the
capital planning request.
NPV (Net Present Value) - Specify the net present value for the capital planning
request.
IRR % (Internal Rate of Return) - Specify the internal rate of return percentage for the
capital planning request.
6. Specify this Categorization Codes information:
Major Group - Specify the major group for the capital planning request.
Group - Specify the group for which the capital request must be appropriated.
Individual - Specify the individual element for the capital request.
7. Specify this Authorization information:
Default Authorizer - Specify the default authorizer for the capital request.
8. Optionally, to create a work order for the capital planning request, right-click and then
click Create WO. Work Order is automatically populated with the generated work order

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

723 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

number.
9. Optionally, to create a project to associate to a capital planning request, right-click and
then click Create Project.
See Associating projects to capital planning requests.
10. Click Save Record.

Associating projects to capital planning requests
Create a project to associate to a capital planning request.
To associate a project to a capital planning request:
1. Select Work > Capital Planning Requests.
2. Select the capital planning request for which to associate a project, and then click the
Record View tab.
3. Click Create Project.
The system automatically populates Capital Planning Request.
4. Specify this information:
Project - Specify a unique code identifying the project, and then enter a description of
the project in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization of the project.
Parent Project - Specify the parent project if applicable.
Shutdown - Specify a shutdown identification code to associate with the project if the
project requires the shutdown of equipment.
Status - Select the status of the project.
All projects start with a Status of Awaiting Approval.
Class - Specify the class of the project. The system automatically populates Class Org.
Coordinator - Specify the employee code of the project coordinator.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

724 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Estimated Start Date - Specify the intended starting date for the project.
Estimated End Date - Specify the intended ending date for the project.
Actual Start Date - Specify the actual starting date for the project.
Actual End Date - Specify the actual ending date for the project.
Current Budget - Specify the total budget amount for the project. Budgets of child
projects do not roll up to the budget of the parent project.
Labor - Specify the estimated internal labor costs.
Stock Items - Specify the estimated stock material costs.
Services - Specify the estimated services costs.
Budget Date - Specify the date the budget was established.
You must enter a Budget Date that is before or equal to the current date.
Hired Labor - Specify the estimated hired external labor costs.
Direct Purchases - Specify the estimated amount of money needed to purchase
materials not normally stocked in house.
Tool Cost - Specify the estimated cost of the tools.
5. Click Submit.

Creating preventive maintenance work orders
Create preventive maintenance (PM) work orders to generate periodic work orders for
specified frequencies or meter readings.
Preventive maintenance work orders apply to single pieces of equipment or to systems that
include several pieces of equipment.
You can only insert, update, or delete work orders if you are authorized to do so.
When you are creating PM schedules to generate periodic work orders, you can establish a
"nesting reference" between major and minor PMs to bypass a minor PM that coincides with
the release of a major PM. For example, you create a major PM for 90,000-mile service on a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

725 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

truck, for which the PM work order activities include changing the oil. You have also created a
minor PM for changing the oil every 3000 miles. You can establish a nesting reference
between the major PM for 90,000-mile service and the minor PM for changing the oil after
3000 miles to enable the system to bypass the PM for changing the oil after 3000 miles if its
release coincides with the release of the PM for 90,000-mile service.
The system can only bypass a minor PM work order if it is currently associated with a major
PM work order with a status of Released.
When bypassing a nested minor PM work order, a status of Bypassed is assigned to the
minor PM work order until the major PM work order is completed. Once the major PM work
order is completed, the minor PM work order is automatically assigned the status specified for
Awaiting Release and it's Due Date is advanced past the Completion Date of the major PM
work order.
Additionally, if you change the status of a released major PM to Awaiting Release, the
system also sets the status of any related bypassed minor PMs to Awaiting Release.
If a nested, minor PM work order is already released when the major PM work order is
released, the system can be configured to automatically assign the minor PM a Completed
status when the major PM is released, the following conditions must be met:
1. The install parameter AUTOPMCL must be set to YES. Contact your system
administrator.
2. The Completed status must be populated for the minor PM Schedule.
3. The minor PM work order must be released prior to the release of the major PM.
4. Once the major PM work order is released, the minor PM work order status will be set to
the value of the Completed status, and the next minor PM work order is assigned a
status of Awaiting Release.
If you have set up the system to require an electronic signature to authorize status
changes to PM work orders, the system will display the eSignature pop-up when status
changes occur for major and minor PM work orders associated with each other through a
nesting reference.

Defining PM routes and equipment within routes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

726 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

A route is a list of equipment that may be associated with a work order or preventive
maintenance equipment record as an indication of the scope of work to be performed, i.e.,
number of repetitions. Several pieces of equipment that are serviced together often follow a
particular route. Identify these routes and give them a route code.
If you have purchased the GIS integration, you may view routes on a GIS map from
the Routes form.
If org. option ROUTEEOB is set to Y, MEC work orders are created when their parent work
order is released, assuming the parent work order is associated with an equipment based
route. Additionally, if the child equipment is configured to associate its map with work orders
when they are released, the appropriate map is associated with each MEC work order.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Routes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the route belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Route - Specify a unique code identifying the route, and then enter a description of the
route in the adjacent field.
Equipment Class - Specify the class of the equipment to inspect. The classes shown
belong to the OBJ entity.
Category - Specify the category of equipment or route to associate with a regular route
inspection.
Template - Select to associate categories with the route. Leave blank to associate
equipment with the route.
Routing templates apply to similar equipment requiring the same maintenance action
and to equipment that moves so frequently that updating routes may be impractical.
When you select Template, a dynamic list of all equipment that might apply to that work
order, regardless of where you move the equipment is generated. When you clear
Template, only the specific equipment listed on the work order is listed. When you
select Template, you may not specify a Category. If you select Template after entering
a Category, the Category you entered is cleared.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

727 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Revision Status - Specify the revision status for the route.
Revision is automatically populated.
You can enter a Revision Status only if the PMRVCTRL installation parameter
is set to Yes. Contact your system administrator for more information.
4. Click Save Record.
5. Click the Equipment tab.
6. Click Add Equipment.
Sequence Number is automatically populated with the next consecutive number
according to the INCRLINO installation parameter.
7. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment to include in the route.
Sequence Number - Modify the sequence number as necessary.
8. Optionally, specify this linear reference details information:
From Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record from which to perform the
work.
To Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record to which to perform the
work.
From Reference Point - Specify the origin or starting point on the route where the work
will begin.
From Offset Direction - Specify the direction of the offset relative to the origin point,
e.g., North or South.
To Reference Point - Specify the ending point on the route where the work will
conclude.
To Offset - Specify the ending point of the offset of the segment, i.e, the amount of
distance it is offset from the ending point of the linear equipment record.
To Offset Direction - Specify the direction the ending point is offset from the linear

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

728 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equipment record, e.g., East to West.
9. Click Submit.

Defining preventive maintenance schedules
Define the PM work order and its schedule. Define PM work orders based on meter readings
(readings are taken after a certain amount of usage), frequency of use (readings are taken at
certain time intervals), or both.
Define PM generation "windows." Establish Ok Window %, Near Window %, and Release
Window % values based on a percentage of the meter or frequency interval. For example,
assume that the Ok Window % is set to 25% and the frequency of the PM schedule is 60
days. This indicates that during the 15 days (25% of 60) after closing a PM work order, none
of the work needs to be redone when the equipment breaks down. The Near Window %
indicates that when a breakdown occurs in this window, it may be worthwhile to execute the
PM together with the breakdown maintenance. The work order is generated as soon as the
Release Window % is reached.
You can only insert, update, or delete work orders if you are authorized to do so.
To define preventive maintenance schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Click New Record.
Requested By is automatically populated with the User ID of the logged in user and the
current date is inserted in Date Requested. Date Approved is automatically populated
with the system date and time that the status of the PM is set to Approved. A Revision
number is also entered each time the PM schedule is released/updated.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the PM schedule belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
PM Schedule - Specify a unique code identifying the PM schedule, and then enter a
description of the PM schedule in the adjacent field.
Type - Specify the PM schedule type. See the following list for default status values:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

729 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Fixed - Select for the system to issue the PM based on a fixed schedule, e.g.,
based on date or reading when the last PM was originally due.
• Variable - Select for the system to issue the PM based on a variable schedule,
e.g., based on the date or reading on which the last PM was completed.
• Duplicate - Select to allow multiple PM work orders to be open at the same time.
Selecting Duplicate as the PM type enables you to create an exception
to the rule that a PM equipment may have only one work order for the PM work
order at a time.
Out of Service - Select to restrict the system from displaying the PM schedule in
lookups.
Class - Specify the class of the PM. The classes shown belong to the PPM entity.
Work Package - Select to indicate that this PM schedule can be associated with a
work package. The system automatically populates Plan with the PM plan.
4. Specify one of the following options:
Perform Every - If the PM schedule is based on the passage of a period of time
Specify the length of time to elapse before the system generates the PM work order,
and then select the unit of measure for the PM period in the adjacent field. The unit of
measure for the PM period can be days, weeks, months, quarters, or years.
Meter Interval - If the PM schedule is meter-based
Specify for Meter Interval and/or Meter #2 Interval, the interval(s) between PM work
orders, and then enter the corresponding unit(s) of measure in the adjacent field.
You can specify more than one meter interval for a PM. For example, you may
want to change the oil in a truck every 3000 miles, which is Meter Interval. However,
you may also want to change the oil in the same truck after 720 hours of running time,
which is Meter #2 Interval. Enter values for Meter Interval, Meter # 2 Interval, and the
meter units of measure as necessary; however, you must enter a value for Meter
Interval to enter a value for Meter #2 Interval.
5. Specify one of the following options for Nesting Reference:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

730 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To create a nesting reference to an existing PM - Specify a previously
scheduled PM.
• To create a name by which to identify the PM schedule you are creating for
nesting - Specify a name for the PM schedule to use for nesting references. After
saving the PM schedule to the database, the name you enter will appear in the
lookup for Nesting Reference, enabling you to create a nest between this PM
schedule and other PM schedules.
6. Specify this information:
Complete Status - Specify the status to assign to minor work orders automatically
bypassed and closed by the release of this PM through a nesting reference.
Est. Workload - Specify the estimated number of hours required to complete the work
order.
Nest Buff. (-/+) - Specify the percent value of the nesting buffer. This value is multiplied
by the value specified for Perform Every for a period-based minor PM. This value is
multiplied by the value specified for Meter Interval and/or Meter # 2 Interval for a
meter-based PM.
For both period-based and meter-based PMs, the product of this equation is applied to
the associated major PM to determine the backward nesting window of the due date for
the major PM. This field is automatically populated with 25; however, you can enter any
value between 0 and 99999.
The Nest Buff. (-/+) is only related to time-based preventive maintenance
schedule setup.
M1 Nest Buff. (-/+) - Specify the percent value of the nesting buffer for the first meter.
This value is multiplied by the value specified for Perform Every for a period-based
minor PM. This value is multiplied by the value specified for Meter Interval and/or
Meter # 2 Interval for a meter-based PM.
For both period-based and meter-based PMs, the product of this equation is applied to
the associated major PM to determine the forward nesting window of the due date for
the major PM. This field is automatically populated with 25; however, you can enter any
value between 0 and 99999.
M2 Nest Buff. (-/+) - Specify the percent value of the nesting buffer for the second

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

731 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

meter. This value is multiplied by the value specified for Perform every for a periodbased minor PM. This value is multiplied by the value specified for Meter Interval
and/or Meter # 2 Interval for a meter-based PM.
For both period-based and meter-based PMs, the product of this equation is applied to
the associated major PM to determine the nesting window of the due date for the major
PM. This field is automatically populated with 25; however, you can enter any value
between 0 and 99999.
You can enter a backward and forward nesting buffer for Perform Every or for
one or both Meter Interval and Meter #2 Interval. Enter values for Nesting Nest
Buffer (- / +), M1 Nest Buffer (- / +), and M2 Nest Buffer (- / +) for each PM interval as
necessary.
Ok Window - Specify the value to use for the Ok window.
Near Window - Specify the value to use for the near window.
Release Window - Specify the value to use for the release window.
Perform On - Specify the week of the month and the day of the week on which to
perform the work on the equipment, e.g., 2nd Tuesday of the month due. Select Last to
handle scenarios in which there are five weeks in a month. The due date is set to the
last week of the month.
Perform On is only available for duplicate PMs, and is not available for daily or
weekly frequencies.
Production Priority - Specify the production priority to assign to resulting work orders.
Production Priority Desc. is populated on resulting PM work orders whose
equipment have Track Resources selected.
Req. Start Date Buff. (Days) - Specify the number of days for which to buffer the
requested start date.
Req. Start Date is populated on resulting PM work orders, based on this buffer,
whose equipment have Track Resources selected.
Req. End Date Buff. (Days) - Specify the number of days for which to buffer the
requested end date.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

732 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Req. End Date is populated on resulting PM work orders, based on this buffer,
whose equipment have Track Resources selected.
Revision Status - Specify the status for the current revision of the PM schedule.
Revision Reason - Specify an explanation of any revisions to the PM schedule.
Revision Status - Specify the revision status for the route.
You can enter a Revision Status only if the PMRVCTRL installation parameter
is set to Yes. Contact your system administrator for more information.
WO Type - Specify the work order type for the PM schedule.
Duration - Specify the duration of the work order for the PM schedule.
Approval List - Specify the approval list for the PM schedule.
WO Class - Specify the class of the work order. The classes shown belong to the EVNT
entity.
Supervisor - Specify the supervisor for the PM schedule.
Priority - Specify the priority level of the PM schedule.
7. Click Save Record.

Defining activities of PM work orders
Define activities of PM work orders.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to define activities, and then click the Activities tab.
3. Click Add Activity.
Activity is automatically populated with the next available line number, People
Required, Start, and Duration are automatically populated with a default value of 1.
4. Specify this information:
Activity - Specify a unique code identifying the activity number. If you do not provide a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

733 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

number, a number is specified for you, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 for each record.
Trade - Specify the trade to perform this activity.
Task - Specify the task code for this activity.
Task Qty. - Specify the required number of units of the task to associate with the
activity, and then select the unit of measure in the adjacent field.
Material List - Specify the material list for this activity.
Estimated Hours - Specify the number of estimated hours for the activity.
People Required - Specify the number of people needed to complete the activity.
Start - Specify 1 if the activity is to start on the same day that the standard work order
starts. Specify 2 if the activity should start on day 2 of the standard work order, etc.
Duration - Specify the duration of the activity in days.
Hired Labor - Select to indicate that the activity will be completed by an external
source.
Labor Type - Specify the labor type for the activity.
This field is only available when Hired Labor is selected.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the activity.
This field is only available when Hired Labor is selected.
Specify this information only if you use the American Trucking Association’s Vehicle
Maintenance Reporting System (VMRS), now called EMRS within the application:
Depending on your system configuration, the EMRS-related fields may not be
displayed. Contact your system administrator for more information.
Reason For Repair - Specify the reason the vehicle needs repair (Code Key 14).
Work Accomplished - Specify the work performed on the vehicle (Code Key 15).
Technician Part Failure - Specify the reason the technician or supplier thinks the
vehicle failed (Code Key 18).

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

734 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Manufacturer - Specify the Manufacturer/Supplier Code (Code Key 34) to associate
with the vehicle.
System Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the system, e.g., brakes, frame,
suspension, needing repair (Code Key 31).
Assembly Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the subsystem needing repair
(Code Key 32). The values available are based on the system-level code.
Component Level - Specify the EMRS code identifying the specific component or part
needing repair (Code Key 33). The values available are based on a combination of the
system-level code and the assembly-level code.
Activity Comments - Specify any comments relevant to the activity.
5. Click Submit.

Defining equipment for PM schedules
Define equipment for PM schedules on the Equipment tab of the PM Schedules page.
Define equipment for PM schedules on the Equipment tab of the PM Schedules page.
If you edit the length of a linear equipment record, the system may automatically edit
associated PM records when installation parameter PMRVCTRL is set to No. If the new
equipment length falls on or within the length of the PM, the system automatically updates the
To Point of the PM record based on the new equipment length. If the new equipment length
falls outside of the length of the PM, the system does not update the PM record.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to define equipment, and then click the Equipment
tab.
3. Click Add Equipment.
The system automatically populates Equip. Org., Work Order Org., Perform Every,
Work Order, WO Class, Supervisor, and Meter Interval.
The system automatically populates Date of Last Work Order with the Due Date of the
current work order for the PM. If the work order is a duplicate PM, the system displays

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

735 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the latest date.
4. Specify this Equipment Details information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to define a PM schedule. The system
automatically populates the equipment description, Department, Cost Code, and
Assigned To.
Work Order Org. - Specify the organization to which the work order belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Department - Specify the department of the work order.
Location - Specify the location.
Route - Specify the route for the PM equipment. If the ROUTEEOB installation
parameter is set to Y, a Route is specified on the PM schedule, and the PM schedule
Type is either Fixed or Variable, then the system will also create MEC work orders for
the route equipment (as indicated by the setting of the MEROUTWO installation
parameter). The system generates the MEC work orders in addition to the initial PM
work order when the PPMSTAT installation parameter is set to R (Released), and the
system automatically selects Multiple Equipment on the PM work order header.
Updating the Route for an existing PM equipment does not affect the creation
or deletion of MEC work orders for any existing PM work orders that are pending for the
PM equipment.
Perform Every - Specify the length of the interval of time to pass before the system
generates the next PM routine work order. You can enter any value between 0 and
99999, and then select the unit of measure in the adjacent field. The unit of measure for
the PM period can be days, weeks, months, quarters, or years.
Due Date - Specify the due date of the first work order.
Each work order determines the due date of the following work order. If you
update the Due Date on the Equipment tab, the system updates the work order Due
Date so that this due date is later than the last work order completion date. The system
adds the interval to the entered Due Date on the Equipment tab until a date later than
the last completion date is reached. Future due dates are accepted without validation.
After a work order is generated for a PM, the system automatically updates Due Date

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

736 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and Meter Due on the Equipment tab of the PM Schedules page to reflect the next
anticipated time that the PM will be performed on the associated equipment. The
system automatically synchronizes the Due Date on the Work Orders tab of the PM
Schedules page with a generated work order when a new work order is completed or
when the Due Date is updated on a work order, which includes any minor work orders
that are awaiting release when a major PM work order is completed.
Due Nonconformities Only - Select to include only new observations created for
nonconformities that are due for inspection.
The inspector will not see nonconformities on the work order that are present
but not due for inspection. The inspector may be confused if he finds nonconformities
during the inspection that were not on the list, which may lead to duplicate
nonconformities
Include Nonconformities - Select to include new observations for re-inspection for
existing nonconformities.
Dormant Start - Specify the date on which the dormant period for the PM begins.
Dormant End - Specify the date on which the dormant period for the PM ends.
Reuse Dormant Period - Select to use the same specified dormant period for the PM
on a yearly basis. If you select Reuse Dormant Period, the system automatically
updates the specified Dormant Start and Dormant End dates after the dormant period
has elapsed.
Test Point Set - Specify the test point set for calibration of the equipment.
Depending on your system configuration, Test Point Set may not be displayed.
Contact your system administrator for more information.
If the work order is a calibration work order, the system copies the test points for the
specified equipment record to the work order when it is released. The system copies the
test points related to the selected Test Point Set.
Include Nonconformities - Select to include new observations for re-inspection for
existing nonconformities.
Due Nonconformities Only - Select to include only new observations created for
nonconformities that are due for inspection.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

737 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The inspector will not see nonconformities on the work order that are present
but not due for inspection. The inspector may be confused if he finds nonconformities
during the inspection that were not on the list, which may lead to duplicate
nonconformities
PM Type - Choose one of the following PM routine types:

PM routine type

Description

Fixed

Select for the system to issue the
PM based on a fixed schedule, e.g.,
based on date or reading when the
last PM was originally due.

Variable

Select for the system to issue the
PM based on a variable schedule,
e.g., based on the date or reading
on which the last PM was
completed.

Duplicate

Select to allow multiple PM work
orders to be open at the same time.
Selecting Duplicate as the
PM type enables you to create an
exception to the rule that a PM
equipment may have only one open
work order for the PM work order at
a time.

WO Class - Specify the class of the work order.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code associated with the PM.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

738 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Supervisor - Specify the supervisor for the equipment.
Date Deactivated - Specify the date after which work order generation stops.
Meter Interval - Specify the length of the interval of time indicating how frequently the
first meter is used/read, for example, 30 to indicate that the first meter is read every 30
days, and then enter the unit of measure for the first meter that triggers release on
usage in the adjacent field.
Meter Due - Specify the reading due value for the first meter.
Each work order determines the due reading of the following work order. If you
update Meter Due on the Equipment tab, the system updates the work order Meter
Due so that this due reading is higher than the reading on the last work order
completed. The system adds the interval to the entered Meter Due on the Equipment
tab until a reading higher than the reading on the last work order completed is reached.
Future due readings are accepted without validation.
Meter # 2 Interval - Specify the length of the interval of time indicating how frequently
the second meter is used/read, for example, 30 to indicate that the second meter is read
every 30 days.
Meter #2 Due - Specify the reading due value for the second meter.
Perform On - Specify the week of the month and the day of the week on which to
perform the work on the equipment, for example, 2nd Tuesday of the month due. Select
Last to handle scenarios in which there are five weeks in a month. The system sets the
due date to the last week of the month.
Shift - Optionally, specify the shift during which to perform the work on the equipment.
Copy UDFs to WO - Optionally, select this check box to copy UDFs to the released
work order.
5. Specify this Linear Reference Details information:
From Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record from which to begin the
reference.
Ref. Description - Specify the description for the From Point reference.
Geographical Ref. - Specify the geographical reference for the From Point reference.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

739 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To Point - Specify the point on the linear equipment record from which to end the
reference
Ref. Description - Specify the description for the To Point reference.
Geographical Ref. - Specify the geographical reference to the To Point reference.
6. Click Submit.

Including nonconformities on PM schedules
Identify which nonconformities to include when generating periodic work orders.
The nonconformity and equipment data available on this screen are used to filter
relevant nonconformities when the Include Nonconformities check box on the Equipment
tab of the PM Schedules form is selected.
To include a nonconformity on a PM schedule:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to include a nonconformity, and then click the
Nonconformities tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Optionally, specify this nonconformity selection criteria information:
Equipment Class - Specify the equipment class of the equipment for which to include
nonconformities.
Nonconformity Class - Specify the nonconformity class. Nonconformity classes are
associated and defined at the nonconformity type level.
Type - Specify the type of nonconformity, such as rotting, cracked, loose.
Type Class - Specify the class of the nonconformity type.
Part - Specify the part associated with the nonconformity type. For example, specify a
tire for nonconformity types like flat, underinflated, or punctured.
System Level, Assembly Level, Component Level - Specify the system, assembly,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

740 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and component levels.
Material Type - Specify the material type associated with the nonconformity. For
example, specify fabric as the material type for torn, stained, or faded nonconformity
types.
Severity - Specify the severity level of the nonconformity, such as minor, major, or
catastrophic.
Intensity - Specify the intensity level of the nonconformity, such as low, moderate, or
high.
Size From/To - Specify the size range of the nonconformity.
Importance - Specify the importance level of the component of the nonconformity.
Priority - Specify the priority of the nonconformity.
Department - Optionally, specify the department.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing work orders per PM schedule
View work order information associated with each PM Schedule.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to view work orders, and then click the Work Orders
tab.
3. View the work orders per PM Schedule.
The PMCRPAST installation parameter specifies whether or not a new fixed
PM or duplicate PM work order can be released with a due date in the past.

Viewing comments for PM work order activities
View comments for PM work order activities to access comments entered for PM work order
activity records. See Defining activities of PM work orders.
To view comments for PM work order activities:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

741 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the PM work order for which to view comments, and then click the Activities tab.
3. Select the activity for which to view comments, and then click View PM Activity
Comments. Print with Document is automatically selected if the comments are
selected for printing on the work order activity.
See Managing comments.
4. Specify this information:
Language - Select the language for which to view the comments.
5. View the comments.
6. Click Close.

Viewing jobs for PM schedules
View jobs for PM schedules if the PM has one or more activities that reference a task plan
with associated jobs.
SHOWJOB must be enabled to access this tab.
To view jobs for PM schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to view jobs, and then click the Jobs tab.
3. View the information.

Viewing planned labor for PM schedules
View planned labor for PM schedules if the PM has one or more activities that reference a
task plan with associated jobs.
To view planned labor for PM schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

742 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the PM schedule for which to view planned labor, and then click the Plan Labor
tab.
3. View the information.

Viewing planned parts for PM schedules
View the planned parts required to complete a PM schedule. Planned parts are displayed on
this tab if the PM schedule work order has one or more activities referenced.
To view planned parts for PM schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to view planned parts, and then click the Plan Parts
tab.
3. View the information.

Viewing estimated costs for PM schedules
View the estimated costs for a PM schedule, including the estimated costs of all jobs or a
single job on the PM schedule.
The following cost categories are estimated based on the information provided: internal labor,
external labor, stock items, direct purchases, and tools. The total cost is then calculated.
To view estimated costs for PM schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to view estimated costs, and then click the Estimated
Costs tab.
3. Optionally, select the specific job for which to view the estimated costs for the PM
schedule.
If Job is set to Show All Records the cost for the PM schedule is displayed
including all associated jobs.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

743 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization - Specify the organization of the PM schedule. The organization of the
selected PM schedule is defaulted if it is a specific organization.
Department - Specify the department of the PM schedule.
Store - Specify the store of the PM schedule to calculate estimated costs per store.
This field is hidden unless PRICELEV is set to S for store level. If PRICELEV is
set to P, prices are retrieved from the Prices tab for the part of the selected
organization.
Supplier - Specify the supplier of the PM schedule to calculate estimated costs per
supplier. The preferred supplier of the selected PM schedule is defaulted.
5. View the estimated costs.

Managing tools for PM schedules
Request tools from a department for specified PM schedule activities and jobs. Record tool
requirements of multiple activities for a specified PM schedule. View tools for all activities and
all jobs associated to the PM schedule. Alternately you can view tools for a selected activity
and all jobs for that activity, or view tools for a selected activity and a selected job for that
activity.
To request tools for PM schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules form.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to request tools, and then click the Plan Tools tab.
You must enter an activity for the work order before you request a tool. See
Defining activities of PM work orders.
3. Optionally, select the specific activity for which to plan tools, or select Show All
Records to display all of the activity records for the PM schedule.
You may use this selector to view all activities and all jobs, or view tools for a
selected activity and all jobs for that activity if you select Show All Records for Job.
4. Optionally, select the specific job for which to plan tools, or select Show All Records to
display all of the job records for the PM schedule.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

744 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You may use this selector to view all activities and all jobs if you selected Show
All Records for Activity in the previous step, and then select Show All Records for
Job. Alternately you may view tools for a selected activity and a selected job but you
must select that specific job here.
5. Click Add Tool.
6. Specify this information:
Activity - Specify the appropriate activity for the PM work order. Activity Duration is
automatically populated. Note: The activity value is automatically populated if only one
activity exists for the selected PM schedule. When two or more exist, Activity must be
selected from the list.
Tool - Specify the tool required to complete the activity. The system automatically
populates the description of the tool and Tool Org.
Hours Requested - Specify the number of hours the tool is needed for the activity.
Quantity Required - Specify the number of tools needed to complete the activity.
7. Click Submit.

Defining sales prices for PM schedules
Define sales prices for PM schedule. Use the sales prices defined here for sales transactions
on the PM schedule. Sales prices can be defined for specific PM schedules to create invoice
lines using a fixed sales price rather than use the actual work order costs tracked by the
system, like part issues, time sheets, tool costs, etc.
To define sales prices for PM schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to define sales prices, and then click the Sales Prices
tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Job - Specify the job associated with the PM schedule for which to define sales prices.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

745 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Job Plan is automatically populated.
Organization - Specify the organization of the PM schedule.
Sales Price - Specify the sales price to specify for the selected PM schedule.
Date Effective - Specify the date this sales prices will become effective.
5. Click Submit.

Breaking down work on linear equipment for PM schedules
Enter and view preventive maintenance work for linear equipment. If necessary break down
that work into manageable, linear segments for easier planning and scheduling of the work.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to break down work on linear equipment, and then
click the Breakdown Linear Work tab.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the PM equipment for which to break down the work into linear
segments.
You must first define this equipment on the Equipment tab. Only one record
may exist.
Precision - Select the precision in which From Point and To Point are calculated.
Default is 0.
Breakdown Into - Specify the number of segments into which to break down the linear
work, e.g., enter 12 if you plan to break down the work into a one year (twelve month)
cycle with work performed each month in that year.
Breakdown From/To - Specify the starting From Point and the ending To Point on the
linear equipment record to determine where and how to break down or divide the work
on the equipment.
Start Date - Specify the date to begin the work for the first segment.
Perform Every - Specify the intervals at which time to perform the work on the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

746 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

segments, e.g., enter 1 and then select Years if work should be performed on an annual
basis or once every year.
4. Click Create/Refresh Preview. Adjust individual segments as necessary once the grid
is populated.
5. See the linear overview section to view the breakdown records.
6. Click Submit.

Associating permits to PM schedules
You may associate permits with a PM schedule on the Permits tab. The permits will be
copied to the work orders released against the specified PM schedule.
These permits once associated, are associated to the work order at the time of
release, not at the time the work orders are created.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule to which to associate permits, and then click the Permits tab.
3. Click Add Permit.
4. Specify this information:
Permit - Select the permit to associate to the PM schedule.
Mandatory - Optionally, select this check box to indicate that the permit is mandatory to
complete the work.
Activity - Specify the activity of the PM work order related to this permit, otherwise
leave blank if the permit is applicable for the complete work order.
Auto Create PTW - Optionally, select this check box to automatically create a permit to
work.
PTW Type - Select the type of work to be performed on the permit, e.g., Confined
space entry if the work to be performed must be completed in an enclosed space.
Type of Work - Select the type of work to be performed on the permit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

747 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Priority - Specify the priority level of the permit.
Risk - Specify the color indicating the potential risk the work poses to your organization.
This color is printed on tags attached and printed with the permit to work report.
LOTO Required - Optionally, select this check box to indicate that lockout/tagout
procedure is required for this permit.
You must next specify an Isolation Type to require lockout/tagout.
Isolation Type - Specify the method required for isolating or disconnecting equipment,
such as a water valve, from its energy source in order that work can be performed
without risk or injury.
Delete Pending - Optionally, select this check box to delete the lockout/tagout details
record during the next review.
Organization option PERMRREQ must be set to YES to use this check box.
5. Click Submit.
6. Optionally, to revise permit records once created, right-click on the permit record, and
then select Create New Revision.
Revision control is enabled when PMRVCTRL install parameter is set to YES
and the Revision Status of the PM schedule is Unfinished.

Associating ERP resources to PM schedules
Associate ERP resources to selected PM schedules for specific equipment. The system
copies these ERP resources to planned work orders in order to communicate equipment
downtime for any resources impacted when the selected equipment is taken out of service for
the specific work order.
A resource is a line of products, equipment, or materials used to complete a job. To associate
ERP resources to PM schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule with which to associate ERP resources, and then click the
Resources tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

748 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Add Resource.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Select an equipment to associate resources.
Equipment must be associated to the PM schedule prior to associating
resources.
Resource - Select the resource to associate to the selected PM schedule equipment.
The system automatically populates Resource Name and Accounting Entity.
Operation Sequence - Specify the order in which the resource will be impacted when
the equipment is taken down for maintenance.
Cool-down Time (Hours) - Specify the time it takes in hours for the resource line to
cool down before performing maintenance work.
Warm-up Time (Hours) - Specify the time it takes in hours for the resource line to warm
up before normal use.
Downtime (Hours) - Specify the expected downtime in hours for the selected PM
schedule and equipment.
Active - Select to designate this resource line as active to display the resources on the
PM work order.
Offset - Select to designate this resource line as offset, or that the resource impacted
by down equipment will overlap with the previous resource.
Offset Value - Specify the amount of time in hours in which the resource impacted by
down equipment, overlaps the previous resource.
5. Click Submit.

• When deleting a resource, the system deletes the resource if the resource is not
indirectly related to the selected equipment by parent equipment.
• To associate resources to the PM schedule not associated with the selected equipment,
click All Resources. Select a resource, and then click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

749 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To refresh resources associated, select the resource record to refresh, and then click
Refresh Resources.
• To view the resource history for the selected PM schedule, click View Resource
History.

Adding safety hazards and precautions to PM schedules
Add hazards and precautions to PM schedules that inform your employees on how to use
equipment safely when working in hazards that can cause bodily harm and alert them in
advance of the precautions to take to protect themselves from the hazard. For example, you
can add a precaution to turn equipment off and remove the power cord from the power outlet
before performing repairs on electrical equipment.
If PMRVCTRL is set to YES, existing safety records can only be modified when the PM
schedule Revision Status is Unfinished.
To add safety hazards and precautions to PM schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.
2. Select the PM schedule for which to add safety precautions and hazards, and then click
the Safety tab.
3. Click Add Safety Record.
4. Specify this information:
Hazard - Specify the hazard to add to the PM schedule. The system automatically
populates a description of the hazard, Hazard Org., and Hazard Type.
Precaution - Specify the safety measure to protect your employees from the hazard.
The system automatically populates a description of the precaution, Precaution Org.,
Timing, Sequence, and Precaution Revision.
Timing - Select the timing which is used to identify when the precaution should be
taken. For example, if your employee is working with fire, you can enter the timing of
pre-work to alert the employee that they should wear fire-resistant clothing before
beginning the task.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number which is used to identify the order in which

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

750 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

your employee should be made aware of the precaution. All precautions are important
regardless of the sequence number entered.
5. Select the Delete Pending check box to delete the pending safety record during the
next review.
6. Click Submit. The system automatically populates Created By and Date Created.

Releasing PM work orders
Release PM work orders awaiting execution in a batch. Select the work orders to be released
by changing the WO Status and updating the Scheduled Start Date.
After the batch release process completes, the records that have been successfully updated
in the Release PMs list are retained, enabling you to print the released PM work orders
individually or in a batch.
If you have established a nesting reference between major and minor PMs to bypass a minor
PM that coincides with the release of a major PM, the minor PM is bypassed as indicated by
the nesting reference. See Creating Preventive Maintenance Work Orders.
A minor PM can only be bypassed if the minor PM is currently associated with an
existing major PM with a status of Released, regardless of a specified back or forward nesting
tolerance.
1. Select Work > Process > Release Individual PM Work Orders.
All PM work orders with a WO Status (system status or user status equivalent) of
Awaiting Release are retrieved.
2. Select the PM work order to release.
3. Specify this information:
WO Status - Change the status of the PM work order to R (Released).
Scheduled Start Date - Update the scheduled start date for the PM work order if
necessary. Any changes made to the start date shifts the activity start date but does not
affect the duration for the work order.
Print All Released PMs - Select to release all PM work orders with a WO Status of

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

751 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Released.
4. Update additional PM work orders as necessary.
5. Click Update PMs.
The PM work orders for the selected records are generated. The records that have been
successfully updated in the Release PMs list are retained enabling you to print the
released PM work orders individually.
To print individual PMs, select the PM work order, and then click Print Selected
Released PM. If the selected PM work order has a WO Status of Released and there
are no unsaved changes for the record, then the selected PM work order is printed
based on the report definition for the Release PMs form.
If a PM work order is associated with a Route and the ROUTEEOB installation
parameter is set to Y, then MEC work orders are created for each equipment on the
route as indicated by the setting of the MEROUTWO installation parameter.
See Adding equipment to work orders to split work order costs.
If the route equipment on the work order header is associated with calibration data/test
points, only the calibration data/test points is copied to the related MEC work orders
created by the system and not to the work order header.
The MEROUTWO installation parameter identifies which equipment to copy to routebased PM work orders created by the system for multiple equipment records on the
work order.
If the AUTOPMCL installation parameter is set to YES, all released minor PM work
orders are automatically closed when the major PM with which they are associated is
released.

Viewing the resource history for equipment and PM schedules
View and monitor the record activity for resources.
The Resource History pop-up window is available on the Resources tab of the
Assets, Positions, and Systems forms.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

752 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the PM schedule for which to view the resource history, and then click the
Resources tab.
3. Click View Resource History.
4. View the resource history.
5. Click Close.

Understanding PM work packages
A PM work package consists of PM work orders of the same period that have been grouped
together under a single "umbrella" work order. PM work packages function similarly to batch
processes, and they can be released together at the same time. Before creating a PM work
package, gather an inventory of period-based PMs that have been flagged for use in work
packages.

Creating and editing PM work packages
Create multiple PM work orders for equipment, and then package them together so that they
release at the same time.
To create and edit PM work packages:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Work Packages.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the work package belongs.
PM Work Package - Specify a unique code identifying the work package, and then
enter a description of the work package in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the work package. The system automatically populates
Class Org.
WO Type - Select the work order type of the work package.
Parent Equipment - Specify the equipment on which to perform the work package. The
system automatically populates Parent Equipment Org.and Department.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

753 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Department - Specify the department to which the work package belongs.
WO Status - Select the work order status of the umbrella work order under which the
work package is created.
Trade - Specify the trade performing the work package.
WO Class - Specify the work order class of the work package. The system
automatically populates WO Class Org.
PM Type - Select the PM type of the work package.
Due Date - Specify the date that the work package should begin.
Perform Every - Specify the length of the interval of time to pass before the system
generates the next PM routine work order. You can enter any value between 1 and
99999, and then select the unit of measure in the adjacent field. The unit of measure for
the PM period can be days, months, quarters, or years.
Duration - Specify the estimated number of days needed to complete the entire work
package.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to complete the work
package.
Est. Workload - Specify the estimated number of hours needed to complete the work
package. The system automatically populates Calc. Workload, Last Parent WO, and
Changed.
The system calculates Calc. Workload based on the sum of the estimated
workload for each PM work order.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining equipment for PM work packages
Define and specify equipment to include on PM work packages.
To define equipment for PM work packages:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Work Packages.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

754 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the PM work package for which to define equipment, and then click the
Equipment tab.
3. Click Add Equipment.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Enter the equipment to add to the PM work package. The system
automatically populates the equipment description.
The system displays PM equipment for selection if the PM equipment is
marked as work package on the PM header, the PM equipment is a child or grandchild
of the parent equipment on the work package header, and meets the following criteria:
• the status of the PM schedule is Approved
• the PM equipment's period UOM and type match the period UOM and type of the
work package header
• PM equipment Perform Every and Perform On match the work package header
• the PM equipment is not currently assigned to another PM work package
• the PM equipment record is not locked by a scheduling or forecasting session
• if DEPTSEC=ON, the system displays equipment records if the department of the
equipment has corresponding records on the Department Security tab of the
logged in user and is not marked read-only
• the PM equipment is a child or grandchild of the parent equipment on the work
package header
5. Click Submit.

Scheduling employees for PM work packages
Schedule employees to accomplish all of the activities of all the PM equipment listed on a
work package.
To schedule employees for PM work packages:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Work Packages.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

755 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the PM work package for which to schedule employees, and then click the
Employees tab.
3. Click Add Employee.
4. Specify this information:
Employee - Specify the employee to assign to the PM work package. The system
automatically populates Name.
5. Click Submit.

Understanding PM forecasting
Forecast preventive maintenance for equipment beyond creating PM work orders. Define
parameters to gather a group of selected equipment for which to forecast preventive
maintenance. Forecasting PMs allows you to view the preventive maintenance on equipment
for a selected period of time as much as one year in advance. Adjust the due dates for
preventive maintenance as necessary to balance the resource workload.
Due dates can only be updated for forecasted PMs. For existing PM work orders, the
due date cannot be changed.
The system will not forecast preventive maintenance for equipment used in a PM work
package.
The system supports only frequency-based PMs on the PM Forecasting form. Meter-based
PMs are not supported.
The system supports only duplicate PMs on the PM Forecasting form. Fixed and variable
PMs are not supported.

Defining equipment parameters for PM forecasting
Define parameters to select the equipment and PMs for which to forecast preventive
maintenance.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Forecasting.
2. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

756 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameter List - Select the saved selection parameters.
Forecast Start Date - Specify the estimated start date for the forecasting session.
Forecast End Date - Specify the estimated end date for the forecasting session.
Session ID - Specify the ID for the session.
Specify Session ID if you are working on an existing session. If you are
creating a new session, the system automatically populates Session ID after you click
Process.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to forecast preventive maintenance.
Top Level - Specify the top level equipment. The system does not display on the
Preview page any equipment above the selected equipment in the structure.
Type - Specify the type of equipment.
Class - Specify the class of the equipment.
Category - Specify the category of the equipment.
Criticality - Specify the criticality code to indicate the relative importance of the
equipment to the overall production of PM.
3. Specify this PM Parameters information:
PM Schedule - Specify the PM schedule.
Class - Specify the class of the PM schedule.
Nesting Reference - Specify the nesting reference for the PM schedule.
Priority - Specify the priority of the PM schedule.
WO Type - Specify the work order type of the PM.
4. Specify this PM Equipment Parameters information:
Work Order Org. - Specify the work order organization of the PM.
WO Class - Specify the class of the work order of the PM.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

757 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Department - Specify the department of the PM equipment.
Location - Specify the location of the PM equipment.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the PM equipment.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the PM equipment.
Supervisor - Specify the supervisor for the PM equipment.
5. Specify this Generating PM Work Orders information:
Parent Equipment Type - Select the check box to display Parent, Parent Org., and
Parent Description for each equipment displayed on the Preview page.
Include Children - Select the check box to include the children of the selected
equipment in the list of equipment for which to forecast PMs.
Minimum PM Frequency (Days) - Specify a number to determine whether the system
will include or exclude PMs for equipment with periods less than the number of days
specified.
Enable Child Equipment Tab - Select the check box to enable the Child Equipment
page so that the system displays the page.
6. Specify this Forecasting Options information:
Work Order Background Color - Specify the background color for the work order.
Actual Due Date Background Color - Specify the background color for the actual due
date.
Forecast PM Background Color - Specify the background color for the forecasted
PMs.
Weekend Background Color - Specify the background color for weekends.
Locked PM Due Date Text Color - Specify the text color for locked PM due dates.
Perform On Day Text - elect one of the following options for the text type for which to
display the value for Perform On Day:
• Select Underscore to display the text value for Perform On Day as Underscore

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

758 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

type.
• Select Italics to display the text value for Perform On Day as Italics type.
Yearly Designator - Specify a value to designate a year, e.g., Y for Yearly.
Quarterly Designator - Specify a value to designate a quarter, e.g., Q for
Quarterly.
Monthly Designator - Specify a value to designate a month, e.g., M for Monthly.
Weekly Designator - Specify a value to designate a week, e.g., W for Weekly.
Daily Designator - Specify a value to designate a day, e.g., D for Daily.
Work Hours per Day - Specify the number of hour per workday.
The system automatically populates Work Hours per Day based on the
WORKDAY installation parameter. Work Hours per Day is used by the View
Resource Load pop-up and the Resource Load Graph on the Forecasting page.
Maximum Rows per Page - Specify the maximum number of rows of equipment
to display on the Forecasting page. Specifying a value greater than 20 may
cause the system to delay the performance.
Prevent Separation Greater than 1 Period Between Forecast Start Date and
new PM Due Dates - Select the check box to prevent the due date from being
greater than 1 frequency after the forecasted start date.
Prevent new PM Due Dates prior to Forecast Start Date - Select the check box
to prevent new PM due dates prior to the forecasted start date when no work
orders exist for the PM. If a work order exists for the PM the system prevents the
separation between the work order and the first PM due date from exceeding the
frequency.
Allow Session Approval with Active Warnings - Select the check box to allow
the system to approve sessions with active warnings.
7. Click Process. The Preview page is displayed listing all of the equipment for which to
forecast PMs.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

759 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• When Process is clicked, the fields are protected and editing of these values is
not allowed for the current session.
• When Process is clicked, only the Equipment parameters are considered, work
order organization, and the Include Children check box to present equipment on
the Preview tab. The remaining parameters are not considered when building the
Preview list.

Forecasting PMs
View and adjust the due dates for selected equipment in a forecasted PM session to balance
the PM workload. Drag and drop dates as necessary to change due dates and balance the
workload.
The system displays existing PM work orders with a Released or Completed status
on this form; however, their due dates cannot be changed.
To forecast PM's:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Forecasting.
2. Choose one of the following options:
• For a new session - Enter the appropriate parameters.
You must select equipment for which to forecast PMs on the Preview
page. To begin PM forecasting, click Start PM Forecasting on the Preview page.
To view the Preview page, select Tab Available on the Child Equipment page
for your user group, and then select Enable Child Equipment Tab on the
Parameters page of the PM Forecasting form. Contact your System
Administrator for more information.
• For an existing session - Enter the Session ID.
3. Click the Forecasting tab.
4. Select the equipment for which to forecast PMs on the Preview page, and then click the
Forecasting tab, or click Start PM Forecasting on the Preview page. Drag and drop
date cells as necessary to change due dates and balance the workload.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

760 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• The system locks all PM equipment records related to the selected equipment and
PMs. The system does not allow changes to the PM equipment record or PM
generation until after the forecasting session is Approved or Cancelled. The
system displays the Session ID responsible for locking the record on the PM
equipment record.
• To cancel the forecasting session, click Cancel Session.
• If a PM is brought into the session via parameters selected and the PM equipment
is selected on the Preview page, the system automatically includes all PMs in the
nest regardless of whether or not the other PMs in the nest meet the selected
criteria.
• All PMs in a nest for specific equipment are represented by a single row on the
Forecasting page, i.e. all frequencies in the nest are represented on the calendar
portion of the row. Otherwise a row represents a unique PM and equipment.

Understanding PM forecasting options
There are several options available for adjusting the due dates for forecasted PMs.
The table below lists the icons available:

Icon

Show Legend

Description

View the calendar legend

Results

The calendar legend is
displayed with the
parameters set on the
Parameters page.

Validate
Session

Validate all records in a session to see if
any active warnings exist

Any active warnings are
displayed. To ignore an
active warning, select Ignore
Warning, and then click
Submit. The warning is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

761 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

ignored and the sessions is
validated.

Process

Process all due date changes and approve All relevant PM equipment
a session
records are updated with the
new due dates and Perform
On Day information, if a
perform on day was set.
Sessions with active
warnings are not approved
unless Allow Session
Approval with Active
Warnings is selected on the
Parameters page.

View Resource
Load

View the resource load required to perform The View Resource Load
PMs
pop-up is displayed.

Run Resource
Load Graph

Run the resource balance report

The view resource load
report is initiated for the
current session.

Run Future
Maintenance
Cost Report

Run the future maintenance cost report

The maintenance cost report
is initiated for the current
session.

Cancel Session Delete and cancel a session

The session is canceled, and
then the Parameters page is
displayed. The Session ID is
deleted.

Previous Month View the same day of the previous month

The same day of the
previous month is displayed.
If the same day does not

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

762 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

exist in the previous month,
the last day in the previous
month is displayed.

Next Month

View the same day of the next month

The same day of the
subsequent month is
displayed. If the same day
does not exist in the
subsequent month, the last
day of the next month is
displayed.

There are several right-click options available for PM equipment. To view and choose the
options, right-click on the PM equipment record, and then select the appropriate right-click
option.
See the following table for the available right-click options:

Right-click

Description

Results

View Equipment Details

View details for PM equipment

The View Equipment
Details pop-up is
displayed.

Update PM Due Date

Update a PM Due Date

The Update Due Date
pop-up is displayed.
If the record
represents a nest, all
PMs in a nest are
displayed.
Original Due Date is
the PM due date as it
exists currently in the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

763 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system. Due Date is
the PM due date as it
exists within the current
session.

Validate Record

Validate a single record in a
session

If the validation fails,
the failures are
displayed in the
Validation Warnings
pop-up.

There are numerous right-click options available on a calendar grid cell. To view and choose
the options, right-click on the calendar grid cell, and then select the appropriate right-click
option.
See the following table for the available right-click options:

Right-click Option

Description

Results

View WO Details

View the details of a work
order

The View Work
Order Details popup is displayed.

View PM Details

View the details of a PM

The View PM
Details pop-up is
displayed.

Shift PM Schedule

Shift the PM schedule

The PM schedule
is shifted.

Enable Perform On Day

Enable Perform On Day

Perform On Day
is enabled.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

764 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Disable Perform On Day

Disable Perform On Day

Perform On Day
is disabled.

Lock PM Due Date

Lock the PM Due Date

The PM Due Date
is locked.

Unlock PM Due Date

Unlock the PM Due Date

The PM Due Date
is unlocked.

Viewing the resource load
View the resource loading required for the current PM forecasting session to determine the
number of resource days required to complete the work. View the number of estimated hours
and resource days required by trade per month, week, or day in the forecasting session.
Modify the date ranges to plan PMs for a specific time period, and then make changes to the
underlying PM forecasting session to balance the resource load. This popup considers both
Released and Forecasted PMs.
To view the resource load:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Forecasting.
2. Choose to create a new PM forecasting session or work with an existing PM forecasting
session.
3. Click View Resource Load.
4. Specify this information:
Start Date - Specify the starting date for the current PM forecasting session.
End Date - Specify the ending date for the current PM forecasting session. Work Hours
per Day are automatically populated based on the value on the Parameters page.
Specify one of the following options:
• Group by Day - Specify to group the defined date range by days.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

765 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The time period is displayed in days. Group Start Date matches Group End Date
for each record. Estimated Hours, Resource Day Requirements, and Total
Resource Day Requirements are calculated by this selection.
• Group by Week - Specify to group the defined date range by weeks.
The time period is displayed in weeks. Estimated Hours, Resource Day
Requirements, and Total Resource Day Requirements are calculated by this
selection.
• Group by Month - Specify to group the defined date range by month.
The date range records are displayed until the End Date is the same as Group
End Date.
Resource Days Required is calculated as:
Resource Days Required = Estimated Hours ⁄ Work Hours per Day
Resource Days Required is calculated as the number of person-days required
for the trade for the defined date range.
5. View the current resource load. Modify the PM due dates in the underlying PM
forecasting session.
6. Click Refresh Resource Data. Date Last Refreshed is automatically populated and
the data on the popup is refreshed based on the current PM forecasting session.
7. Click Close.
The changes to the PM forecasting session made while the View Resource
Load popup is open are not automatically displayed. To view the changes made in the
grid, click Refresh Resource Data.

Generating work orders
Create or update multiple work orders using the Generate Work Orders form.
The Generate Work Orders form consists of two pages: the Parameters page, on which you
define the selection criteria for locating the work orders to process in the batch; and the
Preview page, on which you can preview the work orders in the batch prior to actually

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

766 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

processing them and select or clear the work orders to process as necessary.
The Generate Options section of the Parameters page enables you to specify the manner in
which the system processes the work orders during the batch generation process. Release
WOs for Fixed/Variable PMs is selected by default, enabling the system to automatically
release all PM work orders of PM Type Fixed or Variable with a Status of Awaiting release.
When you clear Release WOs for Fixed/Variable PMs, the system does not automatically
release any fixed or variable PM work orders during the batch generation process.
If you choose to release fixed/variable PM work orders, the system releases the fixed or
variable PM work orders based on their due dates. If you specified a dormant period for the
equipment attached to the fixed/variable PM, the system temporarily postpones the release of
the fixed/variable PM if the due date for the PM falls within the specified dormant period.
The system automatically recalculates the next due date for a fixed PM falling within a
dormant period by incrementally adding the PM period to the due date until the due date for
the PM is greater than the specified Dormant End date for the equipment.
The system recalculates the next due date for a variable PM falling within a dormant period by
assigning the new due date as the next day following the specified Dormant End date for the
equipment associated with the PM.
Adding a dormant period to PM equipment does not affect any previously created or
released PM work orders.
If you choose to release duplicate PMs, the system searches for any PMs that meet the
parameter criteria. If Perform On is specified for the PM equipment record, the system
automatically adjusts the calculated Due Date based on Perform On. Within the month in
which the normally calculated Due Date falls, the system sets to the week of the month and
day of the week defined by Perform On for the PM equipment record.
The Preview page allows you to preview all of the work orders selected for processing based
on the selection parameters, enabling you to select or clear work orders to include in the
batch generation process before you actually process the work order batch. You can select or
clear individual work orders for processing, or you can select or clear all work orders for
processing.
1. Select Work > Process > Generate WOs.
2. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

767 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization - Specify the organization to which the work order belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Department / Supervisor / Equipment / Location / Assigned To / PM / PM Class /
WO Type / Cost Code - Specify one or all of these selection parameters for generating
the work order batch.
Generate Through - Specify the date until which to process the work orders.
To generate all work orders meeting the specified selection criteria up to the
current date, leave Generate Through blank.
Change WO Status - Select to change the work order status.
Current WO Status - Specify the current status of the work order.
New WO Status - Specify the status to which to change the current work order status.
Generate WOs for Repairable Spares - Select to generate work orders for repairable
spares.
Store - Specify the store for which to generate work orders for repairable spares.
Generate PM Work Package - Select to create PM work orders for the parent
equipment specified on a selected work package.
Department - Specify the department to which the work package belongs.
Work Package - Specify the code identifying the work package for which to generate a
work order for the parent equipment.
WO Status - Specify the status of the work package.
Period - Specify the period under which the work package PM work orders were
grouped.
Parent Equipment - Specify the parent equipment for which to generate PM work
orders for all child equipment listed on the work package.
WO Type - Specify the work order type of the work package.
Release WOs for Fixed/Variable PMs - Select to create PM work orders that are of the
type Fixed or Variable when processing the work order batch. The system releases the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

768 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

fixed PM work order’s status to the status specified in the WORKWOST installation
parameter.
If the ROUTEEOB installation parameter is set to Y, a Route is specified on a PM
schedule, and the PM schedule Type is either Fixed or Variable, then the system also
creates MEC work orders for the route equipment (as indicated by the setting of the
MEROUTWO installation parameter). The system generates the MEC work orders in
addition to the initial PM work order when the PPMSTAT installation parameter is set to
R (Released), and the system automatically selects Multiple Equipment on the PM
work order header.
If AUTOPMCL installation parameter is set to YES, the system automatically closes all
released minor PM work orders when a major PM is released. If the minor PM work
orders being closed are multiple equipment work orders, then the system also closes all
MEC work orders related to the minor PM work orders.
In the current version of the system, if the ROUTEEOB installation parameter is set to Y,
the system creates MEC work orders when a parent work order is released for a routebased PM.
In previous versions of the system (version 7.9 or earlier), if installation
parameter ROUTEEOB is set to Y, the system created RC (route child) work orders
when a parent work order was released for a route-based PM. See Defining PM routes
and equipment within routes on page 593.
Generate WOs for Duplicate PMs - Select to create PM work orders that are of the
type Duplicate when processing the work order batch. The system automatically assigns
the status entered for the PPMSTAT installation parameter to the PM work orders
created during the batch process and then releases the work order’s status to the status
specified in the WORKWOST installation parameter.
Work orders are not generated for PMs locked by a PM forecasting session.
Generate WOs for Repairable Cores - Select to create work orders for repairable core
parts to be repaired internally. Store is enabled and it is required. See Generating work
orders for repairable core parts.
Include Child Equipment - Select to generate work orders for any child equipment of
the selected Equipment when processing the work order batch.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

769 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Release Other WOs - Select to update other existing work orders that have the
specified Current WO Status. Current WO Status is enabled and it is required.
Current WO Status - Specify the current work order status for which to update existing
work orders.
If you selected Release Other WOs and entered a Current WO Status, upon initiation
of the work order generation process, the system locates and updates all existing work
orders that have the specified Current WO Status and updates the status of the work
orders to the value specified in the WORKWOST installation parameter.
Print Summary Report - Select to generate a summary report of all the generated work
orders after the batch generation process is complete.
Print Work Orders - Select to print work order cards for the work orders
created/updated when processing the work order batch.
3. Click Process.
The system displays the Preview page listing all of the work orders meeting the
selection criteria.
The Preview page retains the settings for Print Work Orders from the Parameters
page. You can select or clear Print Work Orders as necessary.
4. Select each work order you wish to generate in the work order batch as necessary, or
you can clear each work order you do not wish to generate in the work order batch as
necessary.
To select all the work orders at once, click Select. To clear all the work orders
at once, deselect Select.
The system does not display MEC work orders on the Preview page. However, the
MEC work orders are generated/released when the parent multiple equipment work
order is generated or released.
5. Click Generate.
The system generates the work order for the selected records. If any errors occur, then
the system changes the record’s visual attribute to red and displays an error message in
the Error Message column of the Preview list.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

770 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system automatically copies From Point, unit of measure, Ref. Description, and
Geographical Ref. and To Point, unit of measure, Ref. Description, and
Geographical Ref. to work orders that are released for linear equipment PMs.
If you have set up the system to require an electronic signature to authorize
status changes to work order headers, the system displays the eSignature pop-up once
for every work order in the work order batch for which there is a status change.

Generating work orders for repairable core parts
Generate work orders for repairable core parts to be repaired internally. If you select to
generate work orders for internal repairs, the system checks to see if there is a Qty. for
Repair for any parts in store. If a positive quantity for repair exists, the system generates a
work order of Type Repairable Core containing the part(s) to be repaired internally. If AutoAssign and Active are on, the system automatically moves the part from Qty. on Hand to
Qty. at Shop when the internal repair work order is generated.
1. Select Work > Process > Generate WOs.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the work order belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Department / Equipment / Location / PM / PM Class / WO Type - Specify one or all of
these selection parameters for generating the work order batch.
Generate Through - Specify the due date through which to process the work orders.
To generate all work orders meeting the specified selection criteria up to the
current date, leave Generate Through blank.
Print Summary Report - Select to generate a summary report of all the generated work
orders after the batch generation process is complete.
Print Work Orders - Select to print work order cards for the work orders
created/updated when processing the work order batch.
Generate WOs for Repairable Cores - Select to create work orders for repairable core
parts to be repaired internally. The system enables Store and it is required. The system
populates Store Org. based on the selected Store.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

771 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Process. The system displays the Preview page listing all of the work orders
meeting the selection criteria.
The Preview page retains the settings for Print Work Orders from the Parameters
page. You can select or clear Print Work Orders as necessary.
4. Select each work order you wish to generate in the work order batch as necessary.
To select all the work orders at once, check Select. To clear all the work orders
at once, clear the Select check box.
5. Click Generate. The system generates the work order for the selected records. If any
errors occur, then the system changes the record’s visual attribute to red and displays
an error message in the Error Message column of the Preview list.
If you set up the system to require an electronic signature to authorize status
changes to work order headers, the system displays the eSignature pop-up once for
every work order in the work order batch for which there is a status change.
See the following processing rules when generating work orders for repairable spare
parts:
• If you selected Use Stock Method for a part on the Repair Details tab of the
Parts form, the system calculates the Qty. to Repair based on the stock
replenishment method specified for the part in the holding store. For example, you
create a part OOV-REX-TRA-25G for which Min/Max is the Stock Method with a
Minimum Qty. of 5 and a Maximum Qty. of 10. The current Qty. on Hand ofOOVREX-TRA-25G is 4 and the stock Qty. for Repair is 9. When you generate an
internal repair work order for the part, the system calculates the Qty. to Repair on
the work order as 6 parts rather than 9 to update the Qty. on Hand of the part in
stock to the specified maximum of 10.
• If you do not select Use Stock Method for a part on the Repair Details tab of the
Parts form, the system automatically generates the work order for the full Qty. for
Repair on the Repair Details tab of the Parts form.
• If you do not select Auto Assign on the Repair Details tab of the Parts form, the
system automatically generates the work order for a Qty. Assigned of 0, and you
must use the Assign Repair Details popup on the work order to make
assignments.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

772 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Assigning asset repair details
Designate bins and assets to identify specific parts needing repair when a part has been
flagged as Tracked by Asset.
1. Select Work > Work Order.
2. Select the Repair Parts tab and then click the Assign Repair Details button.
3. Specify this information:
Asset ID - Specify the desired asset ID.
4. Optionally, search, filter, and sort by these Assign Asset Repair Details fields using the
Dataspy:
• Asset Description
• Asset Serial Number
• Asset Manufacturer
• Asset Model
5. Alternately, to assign the selected asset(s) for repair, click the Assign Assets button.
You do not have to select a record before clicking the Assign Assets button.
All assets currently listed in this pop-up window will be assigned for repair when Assign
Assets is clicked.
6. Click Submit.
7. Click Close.

Scheduling work
View the current work order schedule, calculate labor availability, and view labor utilization.
Schedule unscheduled or backlogged work orders. Reschedule work orders as necessary.
Additionally, you can view work order comments, change the work order status, and freeze or
unfreeze activity schedules. You may balance the workload on the WO Load Balancing form.

Viewing the work order schedule

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

773 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View the work order schedule to gather information concerning current maintenance projects
and to assist in future scheduling.
To view the work order schedule:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to view schedules if you use multiorganization security.
Schedule By - Select one of the following options:
• Employee - Select to view the schedule by employee.
The system displays Employee. Enter for Employee, the Employee for whom you
wish to view the work order schedule for the date selected on the calendar.
• Trade/Department - Select to view the schedule by trade/department.
The system displays Trade and Department. Enter for Trade, the trade for which
you wish to view the work order schedule for the date selected on the calendar.
You may also enter, for Department, the department for which you wish to view
the work order schedule to further filter the trade records for the date selected on
the calendar.
To refresh the work order schedule, click Refresh.
See this table when viewing the work order schedule:

View

Procedure

Daily schedule

Select from the calendar the day for which to view the
schedule. The system displays the daily schedule in
the top portion of the form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

774 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Unscheduled work orders Select Unscheduled WOs for Dataspy in the
Activities section of the form.

Backlogged work orders

Select Backlogged WOs for Dataspy in the Activities
section of the form.

Calculating labor availability
Calculate the total number of hours that are available for work during a given period. Use the
available hours to schedule labor.
Organization, Trade, and Department serve as filters for employees who are associated
with specific organizations, trades, and departments. Enter an organization to calculate labor
availability for all employees assigned to that organization and to an active shift. Enter a trade
to calculate labor availability for all employees assigned to that trade and to an active shift.
Enter a department to calculate labor availability for all employees assigned to that
department and to an active shift. Finally, enter any combination of Organization, Trade, or
Department to calculate labor availability for all employees that match that specific
combination. Leave Organization, Trade, and Department empty to calculate labor
availability for all active shifts.
You have to assign the employee to a shift in order for the employee’s availability to
be part of the calculation.
You may also calculate labor availability on the Record View tab of the Employees page.
We strongly recommend that you calculate labor availabilities before scheduling work
orders in the system.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Click Calculate Availability.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to calculate labor availability.
Trade - Specify the trade for which to calculate labor availability.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

775 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Department - Specify the department for which to calculate labor availability.
The system totals employee exceptions for Trade and Department to calculate
the total amount of labor hours available for a specific time-frame.
Enter the Start Date and End Date of the period for which to calculate available labor.
End Date must be later than or equal to Start Date.
4. Click Calculate.
5. Click Close.

Viewing labor utilization
View labor utilization percentages for each calendar day.
To view labor utilization:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to view labor utilization if you use
multi-organization security.
Schedule By - Select one of the following options:
• Employee - Select to view the schedule by employee.
The system displays Employee. Enter for Employee, the Employee for whom you
wish to view the labor utilization for the date selected on the calendar.
• Trade/Department - Select to view the schedule by trade/department.
The system displays Trade and Department. Enter for Trade, the trade for which
you wish to view the labor utilization for the date selected on the calendar. You
may also enter, for Department, the department for which you wish to view the
labor utilization to further filter the trade records for the date selected on the
calendar.
3. Place the cursor over a calendar day to view the employee or trade/department

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

776 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

utilization percentage for that day. The colors indicating labor utilization only appear on
the calendar after you calculate labor availability. See this table when viewing the labor
utilization.

Color

Significance

Gray

Non-working day for the organization or no labor
scheduled for this day.

Green

Total scheduled hours are less than total available hours,
and labor utilization is less than 80%.

Yellow

Total scheduled hours are between 80% and 100% of total
available hours.

Red

Total scheduled hours exceed the total available hours.

Scheduling or rescheduling work orders
Schedule unscheduled or backlogged work orders. Reschedule work orders as necessary. To
schedule or reschedule work orders:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to schedule work if you use multiorganization security.
Schedule By - Select one of the following options:
• Employee - Select to schedule by employee. The system displays Employee.
Enter, for Employee, the Employee for whom you wish to schedule the work.
• Trade/Department - Select to schedule by trade/department. The system displays
Trade and Department. Enter, for Trade and Department, the trade and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

777 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

department for which you wish to schedule the work.
• Auto Refresh - Select for the system to automatically refresh the Daily Schedule
list after scheduling an activity on the calendar. If you do not select Auto Refresh,
the activity will not automatically appear in the Daily Schedule list until you
manually click Refresh.
See this table when scheduling or rescheduling work orders:

Function

Procedure

Schedule unscheduled work orders

Select Unscheduled WOs for Dataspy in
the Activities section of the form, and then
select a work order from the list and drag it
to the day on the calendar for which to
schedule it. The system creates a new
work order schedule record.

Schedule backlogged work orders

Select Backlogged WOs for Dataspy in the
Activities section of the form, and selects
a work order from the list and drag it to the
day on the calendar for which to schedule
it. The system creates a new work order
schedule record.

Reschedule work orders

Select the work order to reschedule in the
Daily Schedule list, and then drag it to the
day on the calendar for which to
reschedule it. You must select either
today’s date or a future date as the
reschedule date on the calendar.

Viewing work order comments
View work order planning and work order activity-related comments on the Work Order

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

778 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Scheduling form.
To view work order comments:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Select a work order for which to view comments from the Activities list, and then click
View Comments.
3. Specify this information:
Comments Type - Select one of the following options:
• Activity - Select to view comments associated with the work order activity.
• Task Instructions - Select to view task instructions associated with the task
defined on the work order activity.
• Work Order - Select to view work requested comments associated with the work
order.
4. Click Close.

Changing work order status
Change work order status on the Work Order Scheduling form.
To change work order status:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Select a work order and a daily schedule record for which to change the status, and
then click Actions > Change WO Status.
3. Specify this information:
New Status - Select the status to which to change the work order.
You may only select a New Status with a system status of R.
4. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

779 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Freezing and unfreezing activity schedules
Temporarily freeze a schedule to compare the actual work done against the work that you
scheduled. Frozen activity schedules cannot be updated.
To freeze and unfreeze activity schedules:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling.
2. Right-click on the form, and then choose Freeze/Unfreeze.
3. Specify this information:
Freeze/Unfreeze - Select Freeze to freeze the schedule, or select Unfreeze to unfreeze
the schedule.
From Date/To Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for the freeze period.
Department - Specify the department for which to freeze or unfreeze schedules.
4. Click Submit.

Balancing the workload
Balance the workload by adjusting the schedule. The WO Load Balancing form consists of
three pages: the Parameters page, on which you define the selection criteria for locating the
work orders to balance; the Preview page, on which you can preview the work orders prior to
actually balancing them and select or clear the work orders to process as necessary; and the
Balance Load page, on which you can balance the work order load.
The Generate Options section of the Parameters page enables you to specify the manner in
which the system processes the work orders.
The Preview page allows you to preview all of the work orders selected for processing based
on the selection parameters, enabling you to select or clear the work orders to balance. You
can select or clear individual work orders for processing, or you can select or clear all work
orders for processing.
Balancing the workload for work orders of Type ST (standing work order) or MEC
(multiple equipment child) is not supported.
The Balance Load page enables you to view labor availability and reschedule work.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

780 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Load Balancing.
2. Specify this information:
Work Order Org. - Specify the organization to which the work order belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
3. Specify selection criteria as necessary in the Selection Parameters section of the form.
You can enter wild cards for the Department, PM Schedule, Project Budget,
WO Type, Priority, Trade, Status, Reported By, Work Order, Assigned To, and
Assigned By parameters. Enter the first character of the parameter followed by a
percentage sign, and then click Process. For example, if you enter E% for Trade, the
system retrieves all work orders with a trade that begin with the letter "E" on the
Preview tab.
4. Specify this information:
Schedule Window (Days) - Specify the number of days into the future for which to
calculate labor availability.
Sort By - Select whether to sort by Reported Date or by Scheduled Start Date.
5. Click Process.
6. Select each work order you wish to balance, or you can clear each work order you do
not wish to balance as necessary.
To select all the work orders at once, select Select. To clear all the work orders
at once, clear Select.
7. Click Lock Selected Work Orders.
8. Select a work order, and then click the next arrow to move the current work order ahead
in time. Click the previous arrow to move the current work order back in time. You may
also click a specific date cell to change the work order date. In the lower section of the
form, the system displays colors to represent labor availability versus labor required for
the work order:
• Green - Available labor hours exceed required labor hours
• Yellow - Required labor hours equal available labor hours

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

781 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Red - Required labor hours exceed available labor hours
By adjusting work orders in the schedule, you can reschedule them at times when
enough labor is available, and thus balance the workload.
9. Click Update Activity to update the work order activity.
10. Specify this information:
Activity-Trade - Select the activity-trade for which to update the trade or start date.
Trade - Specify the trade to update for the activity.
Start Date - Specify the starting date to update for the activity.
11. Click Save.
12. Click Close Session and Update Work Orders.

Viewing work order details while balancing the workload
View work order details while balancing the workload for a work order to access specific
information about a work order that can affect the scheduling of the work order, such as the
location, priority, start and due dates, etc.
To view work order details while balancing the workload:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Load Balancing.
2. Generate, preview, and lock the list of work orders to balance as necessary. See
Balancing the workload.
3. Select the work order for which to view details, and then click View WO Details.
4. View the work order details for the work order to balance.
5. Click Close.

Booking labor corrections for work orders
Book labor corrections for existing booked labor records on the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

782 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Corrections can only be made to records that have not yet been corrected and are
not themselves a correction.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Click the Book Labor tab.
3. Select the record for which to create a correction, and then click Create Correction.
4. In the Book Labor Correction pop-up window, specify the desired corrections.
5. Click Submit.

Dispatching employees to work order activities on a map
Dispatch employees or a crew to open work order activities on a map.
Select work order activities for which to dispatch employees, from a list or from a map.
Choose employees or crews to assign to the work order activities based on their qualifications
to perform the work as well as their availability to complete the work.
1. Select Work > Work Orders > GIS Map WO Dispatching.
2. Click the Parameters tab.
3. Specify this information:
Work Order Org. - Specify the organization of the work order for which to perform work.
Dispatch Date - Specify the date the crew will be dispatched.
Employee Shift - Specify the shift from which to select qualified workers to complete
the work.
Map - Specify the map to use when selecting the equipment for which to perform the
work order activities.
4. Click Save.

Deleting dispatched labor records
View or delete current dispatch records for employees or crews.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

783 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Only current dispatch labor records are shown and available. Completed dispatch
records are not shown on the map or in any of the panels on the screen.
1. Select Work > Work Orders > GIS Map WO Dispatching.
2. On the map, select the employees or the crew whose labor records you want to delete,
right-click, and then select View/Delete Dispatch Labor. The Dispatch Labor pop up
window is opened.
Alternately, you may select the labor records to delete in the Available Crews or
Available Employees panels below the map. Right-click the record in the panel, and
select View/Delete Dispatch Labor.
3. Select the check box of the dispatched labor record(s) to delete.
4. Click Delete Selected Records. Total Dispatched Hrs. is recalculated based on the
remaining labor records in the grid.
5. Click Close.

Creating crews for dispatched labor
Create crews to dispatch work order activities to when the crew is geographically closest to
the work area; and one, several, or all employees in the crew meets the qualifications of the
work order activity.
Crews can be:
• temporary
• permanent
• made up of employees with unique qualifications for special tasks
• expanded by adding new employees
• downsized by removing existing employees
• enhanced by adding temporary employee replacements
You can also modify crews by adding or removing employees from the crew permanently, or
for a temporary period of time. As an example, a dispatcher may need to add an employee to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

784 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the crew temporarily when a permanent crew employee calls in sick or goes on vacation. To
temporarily add an employee to the crew, the dispatcher assigns the appropriate date range
for the substitute employee.
All employees and crews available for dispatching on this screen have met the
minimum qualifications to perform work for the selected work order activity for the date range
determined by the Dispatch Date plus work order activity Duration.
1. Open the GIS Map WO Dispatching screen.
2. Select the work order activity for which to dispatch labor.
3. Click Create Crew. The Create Crew pop up window is opened.
4. Optionally, if this crew is being created for a temporary period of time, select the
Temporary check box, and then specify the date the "temporary" crew will expire in
Expiration Date.
5. Optionally, select the Show Available Only check box to only display available
employees and crews that have enough remaining available hours to perform the
selected WO activities.
6. In the Crew field, specify a unique code or name to identify this crew, and then specify a
description of this crew in the adjacent field.
If no name or unique code is specified for the new crew, a code is automatically
assigned when the new record is saved.
7. Next, specify this Crew Details information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the work order for the work being performed.
Supervisor - Optionally, assign a supervisor for the crew.
End Date - Optionally, specify an end date for the employees assigned to this crew if it
is a permanent crew which will not expire.
Profile Picture - Optionally, associate a picture with this crew.
8. Next, add employees to the new crew, or select a crew, to which to dispatch the work
order activities.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

785 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To add employees to the crew, browse to the Available Employees section, and on
each employee card, choose one the following right-click options:
• Dispatch the work order activity to the employee.
• View the employee's description and trade information.
• View or delete the dispatched labor record for the employee.
Employees selected in this step are shown in the Proposed Crew
section on the screen.
• To select a crew, browse to the Available Crews section, and on the crew card,
choose one of the following options:
• Dispatch the work order activity to the crew.
• View or delete the dispatched labor record.
• Edit the crew.
The crew selected in this step is shown in the Proposed Crew
section on the screen.
9. Next, review the employees or the crew isolated for the purpose of creating this new
crew in the Proposed Crew section. Drag and drop individual employees or a full crew to
the Proposed Crew section, or remove employees from this section to modify the new
crew as necessary until the ideal crew is obtained.
10. When no further modifications to the crew are necessary, click Create Crew and
Dispatch. The new crew is shown in the Dispatched Employees/Crews section on the
GIS Map WO Dispatching screen for the selected work order activity.

Modifying existing crews for dispatched labor
Modify existing crews for dispatched labor. Add or remove employees for a temporary period
of time, or on a permanent basis.
1. Open the GIS Map WO Dispatching screen, and browse to the Dispatched
Crew/Employee section.
2. In the Available Crew section, find the crew you want to edit, and then right click on the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

786 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

crew record, and click Edit Crew.
3. In the Edit Crew pop up window, specify this information:
End Date - Specify the end date for the crew if this is a permanent crew.
Expiration Date - Specify the date the crew expires if this is a temporary crew. Once
the crew expires, the crew will no longer show in Crews lookups throughout the system.
Supervisor - Specify the supervisor for the crew.
4. Add or remove employees to the modified crew as needed.
5. Click Save. If the end date or expiration date is updated, the end date for each
employee in the crew is set to the new date. The start date for any employees added to
the crew in this instance is set to the dispatch date.

Completing work
This section describes the process for completing work information. You may close work
orders on the Closing page or on the Work Order Quick Close form. Depending on your
particular system parameter configuration, you may or may not be able to complete
transactions for the closed work order. Also, in certain cases, you may not be able to close
work orders if there are still purchases outstanding. Reopen closed work orders if necessary.

Closing work orders
Close completed work orders.
If you close a PM work order, the system generates the next PM work order. You
may also close work orders on the Work Order Quick Close page. See Closing work orders
on the quick close page.
You cannot close a work order if any of the following conditions is true:
• If Prevent WO Completion is selected for the Equipment on the work order header or
any of the associated MEC work orders
• If the WOCLPOUT installation parameter is set to NO and the work order or one of the
MEC work orders is referenced on an active purchase order or requisition line

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

787 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• If the WOCLPOUT installation parameter is set to NO and the work order or one of the
MEC work orders contains one or more direct purchase parts that have been received
to a Store but not yet issued to the work order
• If the EVTCASCD installation parameter is set to NO and the work order is the parent of
at least one open dependent child work order
The setting of the EVTCASCD installation parameter does not affect the Status
of a MEC work order when you change the Status of the parent multiple equipment
order because the system always cascades the Status of the parent multiple equipment
work order to the associated MEC work orders.
To close work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order to close, and then click the Closing tab.
3. Specify this information:
Status - Select Completed as the status of the work order.
If you close a work order that is a template standard work order and that has
children attached, the system recalculates and updates the status of all child work
orders attached. If you close the last child work order in a sequence, the system
recalculates the requested start and end dates for all child work orders.
Depending on your system configuration, you may not be able to close a parent work
order until all dependent child work orders have been closed. Contact your system
administrator for more information.
You can reopen a work order after it is closed if the REOPENPM installation parameter
is set to YES and you have the proper status authorization to do so. However reopening a parent work order does not affect any child work orders of the parent work
order regardless of whether the child work order is dependent on the parent or the
setting of the EVTCASCD installation parameter.
If the work order is a multiple equipment work order, then the system updates the Status
of all MEC work orders associated with the work order to the Status of the parent work
order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

788 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment - Specify the equipment on which the work was performed.
If the equipment record was previously flagged as Prevent WO Completion,
you will not be able to close the work order.
Start Date - Specify the date on which the work started.
Date Completed - Specify the date on which the work was completed.
When closing a multiple equipment work order, the system copies the Date
Completed to any open MEC work orders associated with the parent multiple
equipment work order and overwrites the existing Date Completed on the MEC work
orders. However, the system does not overwrite the Date Completed on any MEC work
orders that were completed prior to closing parent multiple equipment work order.
Downtime Cost - Specify the cost of the downtime to the production process.
Downtime Hours - Specify the number of hours that the equipment was down.
Problem Code - Specify the code of the problem that required work.
Failure Code - Specify the reason that the equipment or component failed.
Cause Code - Specify the problem cause code, i.e., the root cause of the problem.
Action Code - Specify the code of the action taken to correct the problem.
If the work order is a multiple equipment work order and you modify the
Problem Code, Failure Code, Cause Code, and/or Action Code, the system
cascades the change to the corresponding codes on any MEC work orders that are not
completed, overwriting any existing values.
4. Click Save Record.

Closing work orders on the quick close page
Quickly close completed work orders on the Work Order Quick Close page. When you enter
a work order number, the system automatically enters a status of Completed and enters
today’s date as the date completed so that you may quickly close the work order. However,
you may also update any information about the work order and book additional hours for the
work order activities on this page.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

789 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If you close a PM work order, the system generates the next PM work order as long
as the PM work order is not a duplicate.
You may also close work orders on the Closing tab. See Closing work orders.
To close work orders on the Work Order Quick Close page:
1. Select Work > WO Quick Close.
2. Specify this information:
Work Order - Specify the work order number of the work order you wish to close.
The system automatically populates the work order description, Organization, and New
Status with a value of Completed.
Equipment - Specify the equipment on which the work was performed.
If the work order is a multiple equipment work order, then Equipment (on the
work order header) is protected.
New Status - Select Completed as the new status of the work order.
If you close a work order that is a template standard work order and that has
children attached, the system recalculates and updates the status of all child work
orders attached. If you close the last child work order in a sequence, the system
recalculates the requested start and end dates for all child work orders.
A parent work order cannot be closed until all dependent child work orders have been
closed.
Start Date - Specify the date and time on which the work started.
Date Completed - Specify the date on which the work was completed.
Downtime Cost - Specify the cost of the downtime to the production process.
Downtime Hours - Specify the number of hours that the equipment was down.
Problem Code - Specify the code of the problem that required work.
Failure Code - Specify the reason that the equipment or component failed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

790 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Cause Code - Specify problem cause code, i.e., the root cause of the problem.
Action Code - Specify the action taken to correct the problem.
Closing Comments - Enter closing comments about the work order.
Specify the following information to book additional hours to the work order:
Activity-Trade - Select the activity-trade performing the work for which to book labor
hours.
When you select an Activity-Trade, the system temporarily protects Work
Order to prevent an accidental change during the process of booking hours. However,
upon saving the booked hours or clicking Clear, the system enables Work Order and
clears the Activity-Trade. However, if you manually clear Activity-Trade, Work Order
remains protected.
If the selected Work Order is a multiple equipment work order, then the system enables
Equipment in the details section of the form, and it is required. If you clear ActivityTrade for a multiple equipment work order, the system also clears the Equipment,
Equipment Org., and Related Work Order.
Employee - Specify the personnel performing the work for which to book hours.
Date - Specify the date on which the work was performed.
Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:
• All Equipment - Enter All Equipment to evenly distribute the booked labor to
each equipment record on the work order. Upon saving the transaction, the
system creates the labor booking records and applies them to each related work
order for each equipment and selected activity. The Rate applicable to the multiple
equipment work order will also be applied to all MEC work orders.
The system automatically applies any remainder of the Hours Worked to
the last equipment record added to the work order.
If you select All Equipment for Equipment and at least one of the related work
orders has Completed status (or equivalent user status), the system displays a
message enabling you to select whether to distribute the labor hours against only

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

791 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

open related work orders or against all equipment.
Also, the system disregards the setting of the COMDAYS installation parameter
when posting labor booking transactions if you select All Equipment.
• WO Header Equipment - Enter WO Header Equipment to apply the booked
labor to the work order header only.
• Equipment - Enter a specific Equipment record to apply the booked labor to the
selected Equipment and the corresponding Related Work Order. The system
automatically populates Equipment Org. and Related Work Order from the
selected Equipment record. See Adding equipment to work orders to split work
order costs.
Type of Hours - Select the type of hours worked (e.g., hourly rate, overtime rate,
corrective booking, etc.).
Hours - Specify the number of hours spent performing the work.
End Time - Specify the scheduled start time and end time of the work order
activity.
3. Click Save Hours.
4. Repeat these steps as necessary to book any additional hours against the work order
activity.
5. Click Save Record.

Reopening closed work orders
Reopen closed work orders when changes to the work order are required or when requisitions
or purchase orders related to the closed work order must be generated. Only users with
proper authorization may reopen closed work orders. Depending on your system
configuration, you may not be able to reopen closed work orders. Contact your system
administrator for more information.
To reopen closed work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

792 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the work order to reopen, and then click the Closing tab.
3. Specify this information:
Status - Select Released as the status of the work order.
4. Click Save Record.
Reopened is selected when the work order is saved.

Entering meter readings for work order equipment
Enter meter readings for equipment defined on a work order. You can view recent meter
readings for equipment, and you can also add a new meter reading for equipment on a work
order.
You can delete a meter reading if you find that the reading has been entered in error;
however, you cannot modify the value of an existing meter reading.
In many cases, the meter for a piece of equipment on a work order is the child meter of a
meter attached to the parent equipment in an asset hierarchy. In such cases, the new meter
reading needs to be entered/submitted for the parent equipment/meter even though you are
entering the reading via the child equipment/meter on the work order. Also, the new reading
must also roll down to all children of the parent within the asset hierarchy. Use Target
Equipment to indicate the equipment for which to add the meter reading.
The Target Equipment for a meter reading is the equipment of the work order only if
the equipment meter is a standalone meter.
However, if the equipment on the work order is a child in a hierarchy; and both the child and
parent equipment have the same unit of measure for the meter usage definition; and the
usage definitions are defined as parent-child meters, then Target Equipment can also be a
parent of the equipment on the work order.
To enter meter readings for work order equipment:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order containing the equipment for which to enter meter readings, and
then click the Meter Readings tab.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

793 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Target Equipment - Modify the equipment for which to enter meter readings as
necessary. Target Equipment is automatically populated with the top-level equipment in
the meter structure and Equipment with the equipment defined on the work order.
If you select a new Target Equipment, all the fields are updated on the form based on
the new combination of the Target Equipment and UOM, with the exception of
Equipment, Equipment Org., and Equipment Description.
The meter for the Equipment on a work order can be the child meter of a
meter attached to a parent of the Equipment. In such cases, the parent equipment and
parent meter should receive the new reading submitted for the child meter, and the new
reading must roll down to all of the child equipment of the parent.
The Target Equipment is the Equipment on the work order header only if the
equipment meter is a stand-alone meter. However, if the Equipment on the work order
header is a child equipment in an asset hierarchy whose parent equipment has the
same UOM on the usage definition and the usage definitions are defined as parent-child
meters, then the Target Equipment may be the parent of the Equipment on the work
order header.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to enter the meter reading if the work
order is a multiple equipment work order.
If a usage definition exists for the equipment, then the system automatically populates
Equipment with the equipment on the work order header. However, if a usage definition
does not exist for any of the work order equipment or if the work order is not a multiple
equipment work order, then Equipment is protected.
If you select a new Equipment, the system updates all the fields on the form based on
the new combination of the Target Equipment, UOM, and Equipment.
UOM - Select the unit of measure.
If the primary UOM on the equipment record is equal to one of the existing
usage definitions for the equipment, the system automatically populates UOM with the
primary UOM of the equipment.
Entry Type - Select one of the following options:
Reading - Select to enter the current meter reading.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

794 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You may enter Reading only if the meter is selected as Up/Down Meter on the
Meters tab of the Assets, Positions, Systems, or Locations page.
Difference - Select to enter the difference between the last reading and the current
reading.
Date/Time - Specify the date and time of the meter reading.
New Value - Specify the meter reading value.
4. Click Submit.
This table shows how the system updates the Meter Readings list with the following
information:

Field

Value

Last Value

Indicates the value of the previous meter
reading.
Last Value is zero when the new
meter reading record is the first entry made
for the UOM of the Target Equipment.

Meter

Identifies the meter of the reading.

Meter Rollover Point

Indicates the value at which the meter rolls
over.

Total Usage

Indicates the sum of the previous Total
Usage and the difference between the New
Value and the Last Value.

Usage Since Last WO

Indicates the difference between the current
Total Usage and the usage at the time and
date that the last work order for the Target

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

795 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment was closed or completed.

Average Daily Usage

Indicates the value of the average daily
usage for the target equipment UOM which is
based on the number of readings specified
on the usage definitions.

Last Reading

Indicates the date and time of the
current/most recent reading entered for the
logical/physical meter.

Last Reading Date

Indicates the difference (in days) between the
dates of the Last Reading Date and the
current system date and time.

If a physical meter record is attached to the equipment usage definition, the system also
updates the physical meter record by populating the Last Value of the physical meter
equal to the current/most recent reading. The system populates the Usage Since
Install equal to the sum of the previous Usage Since Installation and the difference
between the new and previous Total Usage.
If the selected Target Equipment is associated with one or more fixed or
variable PM schedules released according to a meter interval (usage), entering and
submitting a New Value for a meter may release any PM work orders for the Target
Equipment and/or any child equipment affected by the roll-down of the meter reading. If
any of the meter intervals for the Target Equipment and/or child equipment have
reached or exceeded the point at which a new PM work order must be released, the
system automatically updates the status of any PM work orders based on the setting of
the WORKWOST installation parameter, as long as there are no existing Released work
orders for the same PM work order for the Target Equipment/child equipment.
The system also updates the Start Date of activities for the next PM work order to the
current system date and time, updates the Revision number for the PM schedule,
route, material list, and/or task to the current approved Revision number. The system
creates reservations for any parts on a material list for the PM activity as necessary,
event objects for the next PM work order based on the current parent structure defined

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

796 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

for the Target Equipment, and inspection points if the PM work order includes an
inspection Route. If a calibration work order is released as a result of a reading, the
system also copies all of the calibration data to the released PM work order.

Creating operator checklist results for equipment
View and create checklist results for equipment and associated task plans on this form rather
than the Checklist tab of the Work Order form. Optionally, create follow-up work orders or
deferred maintenance activities for checklist items on this screen. After an operator checklist
is created, complete or cancel it on this screen.
1. Select Work > Additional Features > Operator Checklist > Operator Checklist.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the operator of the checklist you are
creating.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to create or view the checklist results.
Task Plan - Specify the task plan of the equipment.
3. Click Create Checklist. Operator Checklist Number and Created By are
automatically populated.
4. Specify this information to modify the checklist items:
Job - Optionally, specify the job for which to modify operator checklist results, or select
Show All Records to display all the checklist items for the task plan, including preplanned jobs or a job created specifically for the task plan.
If the task plan Planning Level is set to Job Plan, select the job for which to
create a planned labor record.
Alternately, if the task plan Planning Level is set to Task Plan and Job is set to Show
All Records all the records for the selected task plan are displayed.
Performed By - Specify the person performing the checklist.
Reviewed By - Specify the person reviewing the checklist.
5. Specify results of the checklist based on the checklist item:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

797 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Completed
• Select the check box if Type is Checklist Item.
• Select Yes or No if Type is Question.
• Specify Finding if Type is Qualitative.
• Specify Value if Type is Quantitative or Meter Reading.
• Specify Finding and Value if Type is Inspection.
Notes - Specify any relevant notes for the checklist item results.
6. Optionally, select the Final Occ. check box if the results entered represent the final
occurrence of the specific checklist item. This only applies to repeating checklist items.
7. Optionally, select the Follow-up check box for specific checklist items to later generate
follow-up work orders for the checklist item.
8. Optionally, select the Follow-up Group field to group checklist items selected for followup onto distinct work orders representing the same groups.
9. Optionally, select the Defer Follow-up check box to create deferred maintenance
records, regardless of whether the Create Follow-up WO button is selected.
10. Click Actions, and then select Create Follow-up WO to generate follow-up work orders
for all checklist items of the selected operator checklist record where Follow-up is
selected and where Follow-up WO-Activity and Deferred Maintenance No. are not
populated. For checklist items of the selected operator checklist record where Defer
Follow-up is selected, a deferred maintenance record will be created.
11. Click Actions, and then select Create Deferred Maintenance to generate a deferred
maintenance activities record for the organization of the selected operator checklist, and
the department of the equipment on the selected operator checklist.
12. Choose one of the following options
Move to Complete - Select to indicate the checklist is complete. The status is updated
to Complete Status.
Move to Cancel - Select to cancel the checklist. The status is updated to Cancel

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

798 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Status.
13. Click Submit.

Reviewing operator checklist results for equipment
Review and complete checklist results for equipment on this form without going to the
Checklist tab of the Work Order form.
1. Select Work > Additional Features > Operator Checklist > Review Operator
Checklist.
2. Specify this information:
Status - Select the status of the operator checklist you want to review.
Performed By - Specify the person who performed the checklist.
Reviewed By - Specify the person reviewing the checklist.
3. Enter results of the checklist based on the checklist item:
Completed
• Select the check box if Type is Checklist Item.
• Select Yes or No if Type is Question.
• Enter Finding if Type is Qualitative.
• Enter Value if Type is Quantitative or Meter Reading.
• Enter Finding and Value if Type is Inspection.
Notes - Specify any relevant notes for the checklist item results.
Final Occ. - Select the check box if the results entered represent the final
occurrence of the specific checklist item. This only applies to repeating checklist
items.
Follow-up - Select the check box for specific checklist items to later generate
follow-up work orders for the checklist item.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

799 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Follow-up Group - Use this field to group checklist items selected for follow-up
onto distinct work orders representing the same groups.
Defer Follow-up - Select this check box to create deferred maintenance records,
regardless of whether the Create Follow-up WO button is selected.
4. Click Actions, and then select Create Follow-up WO to generate follow-up work orders
for all checklist items of the selected operator checklist record where Follow-up is
selected and where Follow-up WO-Activity and Deferred Maintenance No. are not
populated. For checklist items of the selected operator checklist record where Defer
Follow-up is selected, a deferred maintenance record will be created.
5. Click Actions, and then select Create Deferred Maintenance to generate a deferred
maintenance activities record for the organization of the selected operator checklist and
the department of the equipment on the selected operator checklist.
6. Optionally, you may add, edit, or view documents attached to task checklist items on the
Checklist tab. Click Add/Edit Checklist Item Documents for a selected checklist item
to add or edit associated documents.
7. Click Save Record.

Performing a linear equipment search for work orders
Search for work orders along linear equipment records. Specify the range or length along the
selected linear equipment record, at which the search for work orders will take place.
Work orders for linear references will not be searched.
To perform a linear equipment search for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Right-click on the Work Orders screen, and then select Perform Linear Search.
3. On the Perform Linear Search popup, select the linear equipment for which to search.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to perform the linear search.
Search Range Start - Specify the starting point on the linear equipment at which to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

800 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

begin the search.
Search Range End - Specify the ending point on the linear equipment at which to end
the search.
5. Optionally, select the Include Children check box to also search for work orders over
the same range for equipment structure children.
6. Click Search and View Results.

Performing revision control
Revision control tracks and controls the authorization of modifications to entities.
Set the installation parameter PMRVCTRL to YES to activate Revision Control.
Contact your system administrator for more information.

Defining revision control approval lists
Viewing and create revision control approval lists or reservation calendar approval lists.
To define revision control approval lists:
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Approval Lists.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the approval list belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Approval List - Specify a name for the approval list, and then enter an approval list
description in the adjacent field.
Revision Control Approvers - Select this check box if the approval list is for revision
control approvers.
Reservation Calendar Owners - Select this check box if the approval list is for
reservation calendar owners.
4. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

801 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining users for revision control approval lists
Manage the list of users for an existing revision control approval list on the Revision Control
Approval Lists form.
To define users for revision control approval lists:
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Approval Lists.
2. Select the list for which to define a user, and then click the Users tab.
3. Click Add User.
4. Specify this information:
User - Enter the user to add to the approval list. The system automatically populates the
user description.
Sequence - Enter an approval order for the user.
Responsibility - Enter the designation of the user assigned to the revision, e.g.
Manager1, Supervisor1, Foreman1.
If you selected the Reservation Calendar Owners check box on the record
view, the system will protect Sequence and Responsibility.
5. Click Submit.

Approving revisions
View revision approval records for various entities (PMs, tasks, material lists, and routes) and
approve revisions when necessary.
To approve revisions:
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Revision Approval.
2. Select the revision record to approve, and then click Approve.
If the approval list contains multiple approvers, the system updates Approver and
Date. Once the final approver approves the revision, the system removes the record from the
List View page.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

802 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Rejecting revisions
To reject revisions:
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Revision Approval.
2. Select the revision record to reject, and then click Reject.
3. Specify this information:
Reject Reason - Specify a reason for rejecting the revision.
4. Click OK.
Once a revision is rejected, the system removes the record from the List View page.

Approving parent PMs for revision control
View the list of PM and PM-related revisions to evaluate the change to the associated entity
record in terms of the PM schedule.
To approve parent PMs for revision control:
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Revision Approval.
2. Select the revision record for which to approve parent PMs, and then click the Parent
PMs tab.
3. Select the Parent PM record to approve, and then click Approve.
If you are the final approver in this process, the system assigns a status of
Finished and removes the record from the Parent PMs page.
To reject a parent PM for revision control, select the parent PM to reject, and then click
Reject.

Viewing revision control approval history
History records are updated when users approve or reject revisions on the Revision Control
Approvals form. The records display the designated approver and date.
To view revision control approval history:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

803 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Revision Control > Revision Control History.
2. View the approval history.

Setting up revision control for PM work orders
Designate which PM work order fields, link buttons, and right-click options the system will
protect when PM revision control is enabled for the Work Orders form and all work orderrelated tabs. Right-click options that are not work order specific, e.g., Audit Trail are not
available for revision control setup.
Revision Control must be enabled. Set PMRVCTRL to YES to activate PM Revision
Control capabilities. Otherwise the system will not update any changes made on the form.
Comments, Documents, and Translations tabs are not revision control enabled.
To set up revision control for PM work orders:
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Revision Control Setup.
2. Specify this information:
Protected - Select to protect the field on the Work Orders form and all work orderrelated tabs.
3. Click Save Record.
If no boiler text exists for the field, e.g., work order description, the system
displays the ID element for the field.

Setting up revision control for hazards
Designate which hazard fields, and link buttons the system will protect when hazard revision
is not Unfinished.
To set up revision control for hazards:
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Revision Control Setup.
2. Click the Hazards tab.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

804 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Protect - Select to protect the field on the Hazards form and all hazard-related tabs.
4. Click Save Record.

Setting up revision control for isolation points
Designate which isolation point fields, tabs, and link buttons will be protected when isolation
point revision is not Unfinished.
To set up revision control for isolation points:
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Revision Control Setup.
2. Click the Isolation Points tab.
3. Specify this information:
Protect - Select to protect the field on the Isolation Points form and all isolation pointrelated tabs.
4. Click Save Record.

Setting up revision control for precautions
Designate which permit fields, tabs, and link buttons will be protected when precautions
revision is not Unfinished.
To set up revision control for precautions:
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Revision Control Setup.
2. Click the Precautions tab.
3. Specify this information:
Protect - Select to protect the field on the Precautions form and all precaution-related
tabs.
4. Click Save Record.

Setting up revision control for permits

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

805 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Designate which permit fields, tabs, and link buttons will be protected when isolation point
revision is not Unfinished.
To set up revision control for permits:
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Revision Control Setup.
2. Click the Permits tab.
3. Specify this information:
Protect - Select to protect the field on the Permits form and all permit-related tabs.
4. Click Save Record.

Setting up revision control for permits to work
Designate which permit to work fields the system protects when the permit to work is not
Closed or Cancelled or if the status is not Unfinished.
Designate which permit to work fields the system protects when the permit to work is not
Closed or Cancelled or if the status is not Unfinished.
1. Select Work > Revision Control > Revision Control Setup.
2. Click the Permit to Work tab.
3. Select the Protect check box for each field that you want to protect. Choose to protect
any of these fields:
• Description
• Department
• Type of Work
• PTW Type
• Priority
• Note
• Location Note

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

806 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

All user-defined fields can also be protected.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining initial service request information
Define initial service request information before creating service requests.

Creating customers
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customers.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the customer belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Customer Code - Specify a unique code identifying the customer, and then enter the
name or a description of the customer in the adjacent field.
Language - Select the customer's language. The language selected will be the default
language for the customer in the system.
Currency - Specify the currency for the customer.
Class - Specify the class of the customer.
Out of Service - Select to indicate that the customer is no longer used.
Status - Specify a status to categorize the customer by status.
Parent - Specify the parent company. Using the "Parent" attribute, you can indicate
whether a customer is part of a larger organization.
Customer - Select to indicate that this customer purchases goods or services from you.
Selecting Customer inserts the customer into the lookup from which you select
customers on any other forms within the system. Clear the check box to indicate that the
customer does not purchase goods or services from you.
Customer Account Code - Specify the customer's account code to apply to invoices,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

807 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

contracts, or rental contracts generated for this customer.
Customer Cost Center - Specify the customer's cost center to apply to invoices,
contracts, or rental contracts generated for this customer.
Tax Code - Specify the supplier's tax code to indicate the tax that must be applied to
invoices generated for this customer.
4. Specify the customer's Contact Name, Telephone, Fax Number, and E-mail Address.
Our Contact - Specify the customer’s primary contact for your organization.
EDI Number - Specify the customer’s electronic data interchange (EDI) number for
processing electronic transaction information.
5. Click Save Record.

Associating properties with customers
Associate properties with customers to easily create service requests for customers.
Properties are based on the property-building-floor/unit structure established on the Service
Request page.
You must define property structures before associating properties with customers.
See Defining Property Code-structure Combinations for Service Requests.
To associate properties with customers:
1. Select Work > AMS-Customer.
2. Select the customer with which to associate a property, and then click the SRProperties tab.
3. Click Add Property.
4. Specify this information:
Property - Specify the property to associate with the customer.
If you enter a Property only, the system assumes that lower-level values are
implied. In this case, you cannot use the same property twice for the same customer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

808 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Building - Specify the building of the property to associate with the customer.
Floor/Unit - Specify the floor or unit of the building and property to associate with the
customer.
5. Click Submit.

Creating callers for customers
Associate customers’ employee names with customer records to help identify callers for
service requests.
To create callers for customers:
1. Select Work > AMS-Customer.
2. Select the customer for which to create a caller, and then click the Callers tab.
3. Click Add Caller.
4. Specify this information:
Org. - Specify the organization to which the customer caller belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Name - Specify the name of the caller.
ID - Specify the user ID that the customer can use to log in to the customer service
request system.
Phone - Specify the primary phone number of the caller.
E-mail - Specify the primary e-mail address of the caller.
Fax - Specify the primary fax number of the caller.
Property - Specify the default property of the caller.
Building - Specify the default property building of the caller.
Floor/Unit - Specify the default building floor or unit of the caller.
Allow Service Request Creation - Select to indicate that the caller may create new

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

809 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

service requests.
5. Click Submit.
Optionally, click Revoke to remove the caller's record and all references to the record
for GDPR compliance.
This process is not reversible

Viewing customer requests for work orders
To view customer requests for work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view customer requests, and then click the Customer
Requests tab.
3. View the customer request for the work order.
See Entering customer requests and Processing an action request.

Defining property code-structure combinations for service
requests
Define property code-structures for service requests that reflect actual property-buildingfloor/unit hierarchies.
When defining property code-structure combinations for service requests, you must first
define a level one property before you can create lower levels. For example, you must insert a
record for "Property A" before inserting a record for "Property A – Building 1."
To define property code-structure combinations for service requests:
1. Select Work > Service Request > Properties.
2. Click Add Property.
3. Specify this information:
Property - Specify the name of the property.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

810 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Building - Specify the name of the building to associate with the property.
Floor/Unit - Specify the name of the floor or unit to associate with the building and
property combination.
4. Click Submit.

Associating properties with employees
To associate properties with employees:
1. Select Work > Setup > Employees.
2. Select the employee for whom to associate properties, and then click the Properties
tab.
3. Click Add Property.
4. Specify this information:
Property - Specify the property with which to associate the employee.
5. Click Submit.

Managing property information
Enter property information that users can access when creating information requests as
customers call in requesting additional information.
To manage property information:
1. Select Work > Service Request > Property Information.
2. Click Add Information.
3. Specify this information:
Property - Select the property for which to add information.
Information Type - Select the category of information to add.
Information - Specify the relevant information.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

811 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Submit.

Creating service codes
Create service codes that identify work request problems to add to service requests. You can
create a service code based on a standard work order and the system will populate a service
description and priority.
To create service codes:
1. Select Work > Service Request > Service Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the service code belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Service Code - Specify a code identifying the service code, and then enter a
description in the adjacent field.
Property - Specify the property with which to associate the service code.
System - Specify the system equipment with which to associate the service code.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order with which to associate the service
code.
Customer Selectable - Select to allow callers to choose this service code on a service
request.
Billable - Select to indicate that this service code is billable on a service request. If
selected, the system also marks the service request as Billable on the Closing tab of
the Service Requests form.
Std. Response Time - Specify, in minutes, the standard response time of the service
code to use as a benchmark for evaluating response times to service requests that
reference this service code.
Estimated Cost - Specify the estimated cost of the service code.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

812 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Priority - Specify the priority level of the service code.
4. Click Save Record.

Creating service requests
Create service requests when tenants call in to request maintenance. Use the search bar to
quickly locate information associated with the caller. If the caller record does not exist, you
may quickly create a new caller record. If a caller record does exist, you may edit the caller’s
information and then enter service request details.
To create service requests:
1. Select Work > Service Requests.
2. Click New Record.
The system automatically populates Date/Time Reported with the current date and
time.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the service request belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Find Caller By - Select the desired search criteria.
Enter a value for that contains, and then click Search. A caller record that matches the
search criteria is searched for, and one of the following results is returned:
• One matching caller record is located - The system automatically populates the
Requestor Name, Requestor Phone, Requestor E-mail, Customer, Customer
Type, Property, Building, and Floor/Unit.
• An exact match to the search criteria is not located but several caller
records that begin with the same criteria are located - The system displays the
Callers popup. If you see the caller record you need in the list, select the caller
record for which to create a service request, and then click OK. The system
automatically populates the Requestor Name, Requestor Phone, Requestor
E-mail, Customer, Customer Type, Property, Building, and Floor/Unit if
available.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

813 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• No caller records that match the search criteria are located - Create a new
caller record.
Service Request - Enter a description of the service request in the adjacent field.
Service Code - Specify the code identifying the requested service. System,
Priority, Std. Response Time, Act. Response Time, Act. Time Open,
Estimated Cost, and currency are entered, if available.
System - Specify the code identifying the system that needs repair.
Priority - Select the priority of the service request.
Class - Specify the class of the service request.
Status - Select the status of the service request.
Service Request Type - Select the type of the service request.
Requestor Name - Specify the name of the person requesting service.
Requestor Phone - Specify the phone number of the person requesting service.
Requestor E-mail - Specify the e-mail address of the person requesting service.
Reference Number - Specify the reference number for the service.
Contact Name - Specify the contact name of the person at the site needing
service.
Contact Phone - Specify the contact person’s phone number.
Contact E-mail - Specify the contact person’s e-mail address.
Assigned To - Specify the name of the person responsible for completing the
work.
Customer - Specify the requestor’s customer name, e.g., the name of the
company for whom the requestor works.
Property - Specify the name of the property needing service.
Building - Specify the name of the building needing service.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

814 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Floor/Unit - Specify the name of the floor/unit needing service.
Area - Specify the name of the area needing service.
4. Enter any additional comments about the service request.
5. Click Save Record.
The system automatically populates Created By with the User ID of the person who
created the service request and populates Created On with the date and time the
service request was created.

• The system verifies whether the service request being created is a duplicate or
repeated service request. If the service request is a duplicate or repeated service
request, the system displays a message with a list of possible matches and asks
whether to mark the new service request as a duplicate or a repeat. If you select
to duplicate or repeat an existing service request, the system marks the service
request as either a Duplicate Parent or Repeated Parent, respectively.
• To view a list displaying all requests for the specified caller, right-click on the
Service Requests form, and then choose View Requests for Caller.
• To view a list displaying all requests for the specified customer, right-click on the
Service Requests form, and then choose View Requests for Customer.
• To create a work order for the service request, right-click on the Service
Requests form, and then choose Create WO. Once you choose to create a work
order, the system generates a work order for which you may assign one or
multiple activities. The new work order number is the same as the service request
number, but it also contains a prefix of "SR."

Creating new caller records
Create a new caller record if you cannot locate a caller record via the Find Caller By field. See
Creating Service Requests.
To create new caller records:
1. Select Work > Service Requests.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

815 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Right-click on the form, and then choose Add/Edit Caller.
4. Specify this information:
Org. - Specify the organization to which the customer caller belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Customer - Specify the caller’s customer name, e.g., the name of the company for
whom the caller works.
Name - Specify the name of the caller.
Phone - Specify the primary phone number of the caller.
E-mail - Specify the primary e-mail address of the caller.
Fax - Specify the primary fax number of the caller.
Allow Service Request Creation - Select to indicate that the caller may create new
service requests.
Property - Specify the default property of the caller.
Building - Specify the default property building of the caller.
Floor/Unit - Specify the default building floor or unit of the caller.
ID -Specify the user ID that the customer can use to log in to the customer service
request system.
5. Click Save as New.

• Click Cancel to close the Create/Edit Caller popup without saving changes.
• Click Reset to clear all data on the Create/Edit Caller popup.

Editing existing caller records
Edit existing caller records on the Add/Edit Caller popup. Then you may save the changes to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

816 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the selected caller’s record or as a new record.
Editing an existing caller record permanently updates the caller’s information in the
system. If you only want to specify a different contact person for a specific service request,
simply enter the contact’s information on the Service Request form.
To edit existing caller records:
1. Select Work > Service Requests.
2. Click New Record.
3. Search for a caller by using the Find Caller By search bar.
4. Right-click on the form, and then choose Add/Edit Caller.
5. Choose one of the following options:
• Save as New - Click after you edit existing caller details to save the changes as a
new caller record.
• Save Changes - Click after you edit existing caller details to save the changes to
this caller record.

• If an ID is listed on the existing record, you must change the ID before
clicking Save as New.
• Click Cancel to close the Add/Edit Caller popup without saving changes.
• Click Reset to clear all data on the Add/Edit Caller popup.

Assigning personnel to service requests
Assign personnel to complete work required for a particular service request. Once you choose
to assign personnel, the system generates a work order for which you may assign one or
multiple activities. The new work order number is the same as the service request number,
but it also contains a prefix of "SR."
To assign personnel to service requests:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

817 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Service Requests.
2. Select the service request for which to assign personnel, and then click the Record
View tab.
3. Right-click on the form, and then choose Assign Personnel.
Trade Filter defaults to the trade of the selected work order activity.
4. Specify this information:
Activity-Trade - Select the activity-trade to which to assign personnel. The system
changes the value of Trade Filter to the trade of the selected activity and populates the
People Available list with all personnel assigned to the trade.
Select ALL TRADES from Trade Filter to display all available personnel
associated with the property. Select ALL PEOPLE from Trade Filter to display all
available personnel.
Trade Filter - Select the name of the person to whom to assign the work in the People
Available list, and then click >. The system assigns the person to the highlighted work
order activity, removes their name from the People Available list, and displays their
name in the People Assigned list.
5. Repeat this process to add as many people to the activity as necessary.
To clear a person from the People Assigned list, select the name and then click
<. The system moves their name from the People Assigned list to the People Available
list.
6. Repeat the previous step to select additional activities and assign personnel as
necessary.
7. Click Submit.
Click Cancel to close the Assign Personnel to Service Request popup. Clicking
Cancel does not cancel the personnel assignments already submitted on the popup.

Viewing work order details for service requests
To view work order details for service requests:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

818 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Service Requests.
2. Select the service request for which to view work order details, and then click the Work
Order Details tab.
3. View the work order details.

Closing service requests
To close a service request, the service request to close must be open and associated with an
open work order to which personnel is assigned. Closing a service request will also close the
work order to which it is associated. Additionally, you must have sufficient system privileges to
close both the service request and work order. You may close service requests on the
Closing tab of the Service Requests form, or you may book employee time for service
requests and close service requests concurrently on the Book & Close tab of the Service
Requests form. See Booking hours for service requests.
1. Select Work > Service Requests.
2. Select the service request to close, and then click the Closing tab.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Modify the equipment on which the work was performed as necessary.
A service request cannot be closed if the Equipment associated with it does
not permit closure.
Status - Select Closed.
Billable - Select whether the service request is billable.
4. Click Save Record.

Booking hours for service requests
Book hours for service requests to track the number of hours spent performing work
associated with the service request.
All hours booked for a service request are recorded on the work order associated
with the service request.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

819 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To book hours for service requests:
1. Select Work > Service Requests.
2. Select the request for which to book hours, and then click the Book Hours tab.
3. Click Add Labor.
4. Specify this information:
Person - Specify the person performing the work for the service request.
Department - Specify the department where the work for the service request was
performed.
Trade - Specify the trade that performed the work.
Date Worked - Specify the date on which the work was performed for the service
request.
Type of Hours - Select the type of hours worked (e.g., normal rate, overtime rate, etc.).
Hours Worked - Specify the number of hours spent performing the work for the service
request.
To quickly enter information when booking hours for a service request, click the
row containing the personnel assignment for which to book hours. Person, Date
Worked, and Activity-Trade are automatically populated. Modify the information as
necessary.
Start Time/End Time - Specify the scheduled start time and end time of the work for the
service request. If the end time will span beyond midnight, two booked labor records will
be created.
The WOBKMIDN organization option must be set to Yes to book labor across
midnight. Contact your system administrator for more information.
Activity-Trade - Select the activity-trade performing the work for the service request.
Rate - Specify or modify the hourly pay rate for the employee or trade performing the
work. If you defined a trade rate for the select employee or trade, Rate is automatically
populated with the appropriate hourly rate.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

820 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If you defined a trade rate for the selected Employee, Rate is populated with the
employee trade rate. However, if you did not define trade rates for the selected
Employee, Rate is populated with the trade rate defined for the selected Trade.
5. Click Submit.
6. Repeat these steps as necessary to book any additional hours against the work order
activity for the service request.

Issuing parts for service requests
Issue parts against service requests to record the parts that were used when performing the
work associated with the service request.
You may only issue parts to service requests for which a work order has been
created.
To issue parts for service requests:
1. Select Work > Service Requests.
2. Select the request for which to issue parts, and then click the Issue Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to issue to the service request. The system automatically
populates the part description, UOM, and Part Org. The system selects Track By
Asset and/or Track By Lot if the part is tracked by asset and/or lot and they are
protected.
If you are updating a part to issue on the service request and you select a part
from the Parts list, the system displays the quantity of the part planned to be used for
the service request in Planned Qty. and the quantity of the part used to date for the
service request in Used.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

821 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Activity-Trade - Specify the activity-trade performing the work for the selected service
request.
Store - Specify the store from which to issue parts. Available is automatically populated
with the quantity of the part available in the selected store for the work order activity
after you have entered Part, Activity-Trade, and Store.
Transaction Type - Select Issue. Tool Hours is protected because the Transaction
Type is Issue.
Date - Specify the desired date of the transaction.
Quantity - Specify the number of parts to issue to the work order. The number must be
greater than zero.
If the part is tracked by asset, the Quantity must be equal to 1.
Failed Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part that failed.
Part failures are not allowed on an Issue for parts tracked by asset or core
tracked.
Date Failed - Specify the date the part failed.
Problem Code - Specify the code of the problem that required work.
Failure Code - Specify the reason that the part failed.
Action Code - Specify the action taken to correct the problem.
Cause Code - Specify the problem cause code, i.e., the root cause of the problem.
Failure Notes - Enter comments about the failure.
Asset ID - Specify the asset ID if the part is tracked by asset.
Bin - Specify the bin from which to issue the parts.
Lot - Specify the lot from which to issue the parts.
5. Click Submit.
To record a stockout for a part, select the part, and then click Record

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

822 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Stockouts. See Recording stockouts for parts.

Returning parts from service requests
Return unused parts issued to service requests back to stores.
To return parts from service requests:
1. Select Work > Service Requests.
2. Select the request for which to return parts, and then click the Issue Parts tab. The
system automatically populates Date with the current system date and time.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to return. The system automatically populates the part
description, UOM, and Part Org. The system selects Track By Asset and/or Track By
Lot if the part is tracked by asset and/or lot and they are protected.
If you are updating a part to return on the service request and you select a part
from the Parts list, the system displays the quantity of the part planned to be used for
the service request in Planned Qty. and the quantity of the part used to date for the
service request in Used.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition. When returning a condition tracked part, the condition in which the part is
being returned must be entered in the return condition field.
Activity-Trade - Specify the activity-trade performing the work for the selected service
request. The system automatically populates Available with the quantity of the part
available in the selected store for the work order activity.
Store - Specify the store to which to return parts.
Transaction Type - Select Return.
If you select Return as the Transaction Type for a core tracked part, the
system automatically enables Core Return. You can select Core Return to indicate that

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

823 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the part needs repair. If Core Return is selected, the system adds the quantity of the
part to return to the Core Qty. in the store to which the part is returned.
If RTNANY is set to NO, you can only return the quantity of the part that was originally
issued to that entity to the same store. When issuing a part, you issue to an entity (work
order, equipment, etc.) from a store. When returning a part, you return from an entity
(work order, equipment, etc.) to a store.
Regardless of the setting of the RTNANY installation parameter, you cannot return a
greater quantity of a part tracked by lot than the quantity of the part that has been used
to date for the work order.
Date - Specify the desired date of the transaction.
Quantity - Specify the number of parts to return to the work order. The number must be
greater than 0 (zero).
If the part is tracked by asset, the Quantity must be equal to 1.
Asset ID - Specify the asset ID if the part is tracked by asset.
Bin - Specify the bin to which to return the parts.
Lot - Specify the lot to which to return the parts.
Tool Hours - If the part you are returning is identified as a tool, specify the number of
hours the tool was in use.
5. Click Submit.

Booking hours and closing service requests
Book employee time for service requests and close service requests concurrently on the
Book & Close tab of the Service Requests form. To close a service request, the service
request to close must be open and associated with an open work order to which personnel is
assigned. Closing a service request also closes the work order to which it is associated. You
must have sufficient system privileges to close both the service request and work order.
All hours booked for a service request are recorded on the work order associated
with the service request.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

824 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Service Requests.
2. Select the service request for which to book hours and close, and then click the Book &
Close tab.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Modify the equipment on which the work was performed as necessary.
A service request cannot be closed if the Equipment associated with it does
not permit closure.
Status - Specify Closed.
Billable - Select whether the service request is billable.
Comments - Specify completion comments as necessary.
4. Click Add Labor.
5. Specify this information:
Activity-Trade - Select the activity-trade performing the work for the service request.
Person - Specify the person performing the work for the service request.
Date Worked - Specify the date on which the work was performed for the service
request.
Hours Worked - Specify the number of hours spent performing the work for the service
request.
6. Click Submit.
7. Repeat these steps as necessary to book any additional hours against the work order
activity for the service request.
8. Click Save Record.

Creating service request log entries
Log entries detail changes that have been made to the service request since its creation.
View a service request’s log entries and then create additional log entries as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

825 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To create service request log entries:
1. Select Work > Service Requests.
2. Select the request for which to create a log, and then click the Log Entries tab.
3. Click Add Log Entry.
4. Specify this information:
Type - Select the type of log entry you are adding.
If you select Time Correction for Type, the system makes Time Correction
available as a required field. Enter the number of minutes to add or subtract from the
response time. For example, to add 35 minutes to the response time, enter 35. To
subtract 2 hours from the response time, enter –120. Click Submit. The system corrects
the response time.
5. Enter log entry comments as necessary.
6. Click Submit.
The system automatically populates Old Status, New Status, Entered By, and
Date/Time Entered.

Creating information requests
Create information requests whenever customers call in requesting additional information.
To create information requests:
1. Select Work > Service Request > Information Requests.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the service request belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Find Caller By - Select the desired search criteria.
4. Specify a value for that contains, and then click Search. A caller record that matches

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

826 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the search criteria is searched for, and one of the following results is returned:
• One matching caller record is located
Requestor Name, Requestor Phone, Requestor E-mail, Customer, Customer
Type, and Property are populated.
• An exact match to the search criteria is not located but several caller
records that begin with the same criteria are located
If you see the caller record you need in the list, select the caller record for which to
create an information request, and then click OK. Requestor Name, Requestor
Phone, Requestor E-mail, Customer, Customer Type, and Property are
populated if available.
• No caller records that match the search criteria are located
Create a new caller record.
5. Specify this information:
Information Request - Specify a description of the information request in the adjacent
field.
Customer - Specify the name of the customer store requesting information.
Property - Specify the property for which to view information.
Information Type - Select the category of information to view.
Requestor Name - Specify the name of the person requesting service.
Requestor Phone - Specify the phone number of the person requesting service.
Requestor E-mail - Specify the e-mail address of the person requesting service.
6. Click Save Record.

Creating PM plans
Create and update PM plans to create PM schedules or add equipment to multiple PM
schedules at once. A PM schedule is a predefined set of preventive maintenance details to be
performed on a defined interval for equipment. PM plans enable you to quickly enter and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

827 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

update groups of PM schedules.
For example, you have three different PM schedules for car repairs that include: one for tire
rotation, one for oil change, and another for brake adjustments. Create a PM plan and add the
three car repair PM schedules to it. You then add 30 cars as equipment on the PM plan,
which are then added to the three PM schedules in one click via the PM plan. PM plans and
PM schedules are related to one another only by the list of equipment they share.
You can view PM plans and schedules created on the PM Plans and the PM
Schedules pages. The PM plan functionality is not available when the PMRVCTRL
installation parameter is set to Yes.

Creating PM plan headers
To create PM plan headers:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Plans.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the PM plan belongs if you use multiorganization security.
If multi-organization security is activated, i.e., the MULTIORG installation
parameter is set to YES, you can only attach PMs of the same organization to a PM
plan. A PM plan and all PM schedules attached to the plan must share the same
Organization.
PM Plan - Specify a unique code identifying the PM plan, and then enter a description in
the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the PM plan. The classes shown belong to the PM Plan
entity.
Equipment Class - Specify the class of the equipment. If you select an equipment
class, the system restricts attaching PM equipment associated with other classes to the
PM plan.
4. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

828 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Copying PM plans
Copy PM plans to quickly create a new PM plan by copying information from an existing PM
plan to a new plan.
To copy PM plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Plans.
2. Select the PM plan to copy, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Right-click on the form, and then select Copy PM Plan.
4. Specify this information:
New PM Plan - Specify a unique code identifying the new PM plan, and then enter a
description of the PM plan in the adjacent field.
5. Select the related details to copy to the new PM plan:
• Custom Field Values
• Comments
• Activities
• PM Schedules
• Equipment
• Documents
6. Click Submit.

Associating PM schedules with PM plans
Associate PM schedules with PM plans to manage equipment for all of the PM schedules on
the PM plan.
To associate PM schedules with PM plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Plans.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

829 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the PM plan with which to associate PM schedules, and then click the PM
Schedules tab.
3. Choose one of the following options:
Associate an existing PM schedule - Specify an existing PM Schedule. The system
automatically populates the PM Schedule description. The system also populates the
WO Type, Duration, PM Type, Class, Priority, Work Package, and Perform Every
from the existing PM schedule.
You cannot add an existing PM schedule with equipment to a PM plan.
If you select an existing PM schedule, the system only populates PM Plan on the
existing PM schedule record. If you update any of the existing PM schedule data from
the PM schedule on the PM plan, the system also displays the changes to the PM
schedule record.
If there are existing activities on the PM schedule, the system also copies the activities
to the PM plan.
Create and associate a new PM - Click Add PM Schedule. Enter a unique code
identifying the new PM Schedule, and then enter a description in the adjacent field.
4. Specify this information:
WO Type - Select the work order type for the PM schedule.
Duration - Specify the estimated number of days to complete the PM.
PM Type - Select the type of PM.
Class - Specify the class of the PM. The classes shown belong to the PPM entity.
Priority - Select the priority level of the PM.
Work Package - Select to indicate that this PM schedule can be associated with a work
package.
Perform Every - Specify the length of the interval of time to pass before the system
generates the next PM work order. You can enter any value between 0 and 99999, and
then select the unit of measure in the adjacent field. The unit of measure for the PM
period can be days, weeks, months, quarters, or years.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

830 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Perform On - Specify the week of the month and the day of the week on which to
perform the work on the equipment, e.g., 2 and Tuesday of the month due. Select Last
to handle scenarios in which there are five weeks in a month. The system sets the due
date to the last week of the month.
5. Click Submit.

• If the PM schedule to delete has equipment, the system displays a message
enabling you to indicate whether to remove all of the equipment from the PM
schedule.
• If you click No, the system does not remove the equipment from the PM schedule
but deletes the PM schedule from the PM plan, clears the PM plan activities for
the PM schedule, clears the PM plan on the PM schedule record, and deletes all
work orders for the PM schedule with a status of Awaiting Release.
• If you click Yes, the system removes the equipment from the PM schedule. If
Work Package is not selected, the system removes the PM schedule from the PM
plan, clears the PM plan activities for the PM schedule, clears the PM plan on the
PM schedule record, deletes all work orders for the PM schedule with a status of
Awaiting Release, and removes the equipment from the PM schedule if all of the
PM work orders have a status of Complete or Awaiting Release. If any of the PM
work orders for the PM schedule have a status other than Complete or Awaiting
Release, the system populates Date Deactivated for the equipment on the
Equipment page of the PM Schedules form instead of removing the equipment
from the PM. If the PM plan has only one PM schedule, the system removes the
equipment from the PM plan.
• If Work Package is selected, the system also removes the equipment from the
work package associated with the PM schedule.

Creating activities for PM schedules on PM plans
Create activities for PM schedules on PM plans to conveniently add activities for PM
schedules. The Activities page of the PM Plans form functions in the same manner as the
Activities page of the PM Schedules form. See Defining activities of PM work orders.
The functionality of the Activities page of the PM Plans form is unlike the functionality of the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

831 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment page of the PM Plans form because additions/revisions made on the Activities
page affect only the selected PM schedule and do not affect/update all of the PM schedules
on the PM plan. See Adding equipment to PM plans.
To create activities for PM schedules on PM plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Plans.
2. Select the PM plan for which to create activities, and then click the Activities tab.
3. Click Add PM Activity.
To update an existing activity or PM schedule, select the activity to update. The
system populates PM Schedule, Activity, Trade, Task, Material List, Estimated
Hours, People Required, Start, and Duration from the selected activity record.
4. Specify this information:
PM Schedule - Specify the PM schedule. The system automatically populates Activity
with the next consecutive number according to the INCRLINO installation parameter
and populates People Required, Start, and Duration with "1".
Trade - Specify the trade required to perform the activity.
Task - Specify the task code for the activity.
Material List - Specify the code identifying the material list that contains the parts
needed for the activity.
Estimated Hours - Specify the estimated number of hours required to complete the
activity.
People Required - Modify the number of people required to perform the activity as
necessary. When you enter a Trade and Estimated Hours, the system populates
People Required based on the following equation:
People Required = (Estimated Hours / Duration x the value of the WORKDAY
installation parameter)
Start - Specify 1 if the activity is to start on the same day that the standard work order
starts. Specify 2 if the activity should start on day 2 of the standard work order, etc.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

832 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Duration - Specify the estimated number of days to complete the PM.
5. Click Submit.
To copy the activity, select the activity to copy, and then click Copy PM
Activity. The system inserts a new PM Activity Details record and populates Trade,
Task, Material List, Estimated Hours, People Required, Start, and Duration from the
selected activity. Enter a PM Schedule, and then click Submit.

Moving activities to PM plans
Move activities from one PM to another or change the sequence of an activity within the same
PM.
To move activities to PM plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Plans.
2. Select the PM plan for which to move activities, and then click the Activities tab.
3. Select the activity to move, and then click Move PM Activity.
4. Specify this information:
New PM Schedule - Specify the PM Schedule to which to move the activity. The
system automatically populates the New PM Schedule description and New Activity
with the next available activity number.
If the activity being moved has tools associated with it, the system also moves
the tools to the new PM activity.
You can also renumber activities on the same PM by entering the same PM number for
New PM Schedule and entering a New Activity number.
5. Click Save.
The system moves the activity and updates the PM schedule records on both the PM
Plans and PM Schedules forms.

Adding equipment to PM plans

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

833 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Add equipment for PM schedules to PM plans. Equipment added to a PM plan is
automatically associated with every PM schedule on the PM plan.
You can only add or delete equipment for a PM schedule on a PM plan on the
Equipment page of the PM Plans form.
If Work Package is selected for a PM schedule on the PM plan, the system does not create
an initial PM work order for the PM schedule when equipment is added to the PM plan.
To add equipment to PM plans:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > PM Plans.
2. Select the PM plan to which to add equipment, and then click the Equipment tab.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the PM equipment to add to the PM plan.
Note: Because the equipment details information for the PM plan is stored in the same
database table with the equipment information for PM schedules, all of the additional
equipment data that is available on the Equipment page of the PM Schedules form is
also copied to this tab, although the data is not displayed. Likewise, all location
information and handling of dormant periods/bypassing is also carried over from the PM
schedule. If necessary, you can update the equipment details on the Equipment page
of the PM Schedules form. See Creating preventive maintenance work orders.
4. Click Submit. PM Plan is populated on the Equipment page of the PM Schedules
form. Add additional equipment to the PM plan as necessary.

• If Work Package is selected for the PM schedule(s) on the PM plan and there are
work orders with a status of Completed or Awaiting Execution, the PM work orders
with Awaiting Execution status are deleted, no changes are made to completed
work orders, the equipment from all of the associated PM schedules is deleted,
and the PM schedule(s) are detached from the work package.
• If any of the PM work orders for the PM schedule have a status other than
Complete or Awaiting Release, Date Deactivated is populated for the equipment
on the Equipment page of the PM Schedules form instead of the equipment from

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

834 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the PM being removed.

Managing fuel
Manage fuel by tracking fuel issues and receipts. Associate fuel types to depots, tanks, and
pumps. View fuel transactions.

Creating fuels
Enter the different types of fuel and fuel mixes to issue to vehicles or equipment.
To create fuel:
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Fuels.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Fuel - Specify a unique code identifying the fuel.
Fuel Description - Specify a description of the fuel.
Fuel Type - Select the fuel type.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure in which to measure the fuel quantities.
Class - Specify the class to which the fuel will belong. The system automatically
populates Class Org.
Emissions Commodity - Specify the commodity to associate with the fuel to track
CO2e emissions.
Blended Grade - Select if this fuel is a blend of two or more grades.
If you selected Blended Grade, complete steps 13-22.
Out of Service - Select to indicate the fuel is no longer in service. If you select Out of
Service the system retains the fuel record, but it will no longer appear in the lookups for
fuels on other forms.
Fuel 1 - Specify fuel type 1.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

835 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Blend % 1 - Specify the percentage of blended grade 1.
Fuel 2 - Specify fuel type 2.
Blend % 2 - Specify the percentage of blended grade 2.
Fuel 3 - Specify fuel type 3.
Blend % 3 - Specify the percentage of blended grade 3.
Fuel 4 - Specify fuel type 4.
Blend % 4 - Specify the percentage of blended grade 4.
Fuel 5 - Specify fuel type 5.
Blend % 5 - Specify the percentage of blended grade 5.
4. Click Save Record.

Creating depots
Create depots to specify storage areas for fuel.
To create depots:
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Depots.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Depot - Specify a unique code identifying the depot.
Description - Enter a description of the depot.
Depot Organization - Specify the organization to which the depot belongs.
Class - Specify the class to which the depot belongs. The system automatically
populates Class Org.
Location - Specify the location of the depot. The system automatically populates
Location Org.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

836 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Choose one of the following options:
• Markup % - Specify a markup percentage, to be added to the average price when
fuel is issued.
• Fixed Markup - Specify a fixed markup amount, to be added to the average price
when fuel is issued.
• External - Select to indicate that the depot is an external depot.
• Out of Service - Select to indicate that the depot is out of service.
• Allow Tank Volumes Greater than Capacity - Select to allow a tank record to
indicate a greater volume than set capacity.
• Allow Negative Tank Volumes - Select to allow a tank record with a negative
volume.
5. Click Save Record.

Creating tanks for depots
Create tanks in which to store fuel at a specified depot.
To create tanks for depots:
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Depots.
2. Select the depot for which to create a tank, and then click the Tanks tab.
3. Specify this information:
Tank - Specify a unique code identifying the tank, and then enter a description of the
tank in the adjacent field.
Fuel - Specify the fuel to store in the tank at the depot. The system automatically
populates Fuel Type, Volume UOM, and Average Price.
Max. Tank Volume - Specify the maximum allowable fuel volume. The system
automatically populates Current Tank Volume.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box if the fuel is out of service.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

837 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Creating pumps for depots
Create pumps from which to issue fuel.
To create pumps for depots:
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Depots.
2. Select the depot for which to add pumps, and then click the Pumps tab.
3. Click Add Pump.
4. Specify this information:
Pump - Specify a unique code identifying the pump, and then enter a description of the
pump in the adjacent field.
5. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box if the pump is out of service.
6. Click Submit.

Associating pumps to tanks and fuel for depots
Associate pumps with the tanks and fuel the pump will issue.
To associate pumps to tanks and fuel for depots:
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Depots.
2. Select the depot for which to associate pumps to tanks, and then click the Tank/Pump
tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Tank - Specify the tank to associate to the pump for the selected depot. The system
automatically populates the tank description and Fuel.
Pump - Specify the pump to associate to the tank for the selected depot. The system

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

838 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

automatically populates the pump description.
5. Optionally, select the Active check box to designate the pump as active on the selected
tank.
6. Click Submit.

Issuing fuel
Issue fuel to vehicles or equipment, and then track the quantity and price of fuel issued.
To issue fuel:
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Fuel Issues.
2. Specify this information:
Depot - Specify the depot at which the fuel is located.
Date - Enter the date of the fuel issue.
If you are entering multiple transactions for one date, entering Date above will
automatically populate Date below.
3. Click Add Fuel.
4. Specify this information:
Fuel - Specify the fuel to be issued to the vehicle or equipment.
Pump - Specify the pump from which the fuel was issued.
Vehicle - Specify the vehicle to which the fuel was issued.
Qty. Issued - Specify the quantity in gallons of fuel issued.
Date - Specify the date of the fuel issue transaction.
5. Click Add to List.
6. Click Submit Transaction.

Entering fuel issues and meter readings in a batch

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

839 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Manually enter batches of fuel issues and meter readings for a large fleet of vehicles or many
pieces of equipment. Recording fuel issues and meter readings allows your organization to
track the quantity and details of fuel issued, and equipment usage over time. The batch
screen provides a faster data entry process.
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Batch Fuel Issues. A list of equipment and
vehicles is populated in the grid based on your user settings.
2. Use the Dataspy to display records in the grid based on your defined criteria, or opt to
use the predefined Dataspy All Vehicles to display all equipment records with the
Vehicle check box selected in the grid.
3. Optionally, for faster batch data entry at the employee and fuel levels, use these
shortcuts:
Default Fuel Issued To - Select this check box to use the logged in user as the person
to which all fuel issues are being recorded in this session. For example, if you are
manually entering fuel issues for 300 records in this session, and you select this check
box, the employee associated to the logged in user is defaulted in the Issued To field on
all 300 fuel issues.
You still have the option to manually specify the employee receiving each fuel issue in
the Issued To field on each equipment or vehicle record in the grid.
Default Fuel Price - Specify the price of the fuel to default for the entire batch of fuel
issues being recorded. To use the example above, if you are manually entering fuel
issues for 300 records in this session, and you specify a default fuel price of $4.00,
$4.00 is automatically recorded as the Price of fuel for all 300 records.
Optionally, you may leave this blank and specify Price for each fuel issue being record.
Or opt to leave Price blank.
Price can only be specified for issues from external depots.
4. Specify this information for each record:
Date - Specify the date fuel was issued or the meter value was recorded. Leave blank to
use the system date/time.
Meter Reading - Specify a new meter reading for the vehicle or equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

840 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Fuel Qty. - Specify the quantity of fuel issued to the vehicle or equipment.
5. Optionally, specify the Fuel, Depot, Pump, and Meter UOM information for the
equipment or vehicle to overwrite the default values:
• Primary Fuel value defaults from the equipment record.
• Default Depot value defaults from the Department of the equipment.
• Default Pump value defaults from the Tank/Pump of the Depot.
• Primary UOM value defaults from the equipment record.
6. Click Save Record.

Receiving fuel into tanks
Receive fuel into tanks from selected depots.
To receive fuel into tanks:
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Fuel Receipts.
2. Specify this information:
Depot - Specify the depot from which to issue the fuel. The system automatically
populates the depot description and Organization.
Date - Specify the date and time for which the fuel issue will occur.
3. Click Add Tank.
4. Specify this information:
Tank - Specify the tank to receive the fuel issue. The system automatically populates
the tank description, Fuel, fuel description, fuel UOM, and Fuel Type.
Qty. Received - Specify the fuel quantity to receive to the tank. The system
automatically populates the quantity received unit of measure.
Date - Specify the date and time for which the fuel issue will occur.
Price - Specify the price for the fuel issue.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

841 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Supplier - Specify the fuel supplier.
5. Click Add to List.
6. Click Submit Transaction.

Recording tank volumes for fuel physical inventories
Record actual quantities of tanks on a fuel physical inventory record.
To record tank volumes for fuel physical inventories:
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Fuel Physical Inventory.
2. Select or create the fuel physical inventory for which to record tank volumes, and then
click the Tanks tab.
The system automatically populates Line, Tank, Description, Fuel, Expected Volume,
Expected Volume UOM, and Physical Volume UOM.
3. Specify this information:
Physical Volume - Specify the actual volume of the tank for the selected fuel physical
inventory record.
4. Click Submit.

Viewing associated depots and tanks for fuels
View a list of associated tanks and depots for selected fuels.
To view associated depots and tanks for fuels:
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Fuels.
2. Select the fuel for which to view associated depots and tanks, and then click the
Depot/Tank tab.
3. View the list of associated depots and tanks for the selected fuel.

Viewing fuel transactions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

842 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View the history of issues and receipts associated with fuels.
To view fuel transactions:
1. Select Work > Fuel Management > Fuels.
2. Select the fuel for which to view fuel transactions, and then click the Transactions tab.
3. View the transaction history for the selected fuel.

Understanding deferred maintenance
Deferred maintenance is a work order activity for a specific piece of equipment that will be
performed at a future date. For example, a work order for vehicle maintenance might include
several critical and non-critical activities. To save time, a supervisor might decide to defer one
or more non-critical activities to a later date.
Create deferred maintenance from an existing work order or manually create deferred
maintenance on the Deferred Maintenance form.

Creating deferred maintenance
Create deferred maintenance when a maintenance activity you want to defer has not been
added to a work order. The deferred maintenance can be assigned to a work order when
there is adequate availability on the equipment for the deferred activity to be completed.
To create deferred maintenance:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Deferred Maintenance.
2. Click New Record. The system automatically populates Deferred Maintenance No.,
Status, Deferred By, People Required, Duration (Days) and Task Qty.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the work order belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Activity Note - Specify a description of the maintenance activity to defer.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to defer maintenance. The system
automatically populates the adjacent field with the equipment's description, Equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

843 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Type, and Equipment Org.
Status - Choose one of the following options:
• Unassigned - Select to create the deferred maintenance.
• Assigned - Select to assign the deferred maintenance to a specific work order.
• Cancelled - Select to cancel the deferred maintenance.
4. Specify this Deferred Maintenance details information:
Task Plan - Specify the task code for the deferred maintenance. The system
automatically populates Task Plan Revision, UOM (field adjacent to Task Plan Qty.)
and Trade for the task, as well as People Required, Reason for Repair, Work
Accomplished, Technician Part Failure, Manufacturer, System Level, Assembly
Level, and Component Level if you use the American Trucking Association's Vehicle
Maintenance Reporting System (VRMS).
Task Plan Qty. - Specify the required number of units of the task plan to associate with
the deferred maintenance, and then select the unit of measure for the Task Plan Qty. in
the adjacent field. For example, a work order activity to pave 100 miles of highway today
will indicate a Task Plan Qty. of "100" and a unit of measure of "Miles", whereas the
same task on another day might indicate only 80 miles due to the steep inclines of the
stretch of highway being paved on that day.
Material List - Specify the code identifying the material list that contains the parts
needed for the deferred maintenance. The system automatically populates Material List
Revision.
Trade - Specify the trade required to perform the deferred maintenance.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to perform the deferred
maintenance.
Duration (Days) - Specify the estimated number of days needed to complete the
deferred maintenance.
Estimated Hours - Specify the estimated number of hours needed to complete the
deferred maintenance.
Estimated Hours must be less than or equal to People Required times 24

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

844 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

times Duration (Days).
Specify this information only if you use the American Trucking Association’s Vehicle
Maintenance Reporting System (VMRS):
The system will copy the VMRS-related information you enter on this form to
the work order to which the deferred maintenance is assigned.
Reason For Repair - Specify the reason the vehicle needs repair (Code Key 14).
Work Accomplished - Specify the work performed on the vehicle (Code Key 15).
Technician Part Failure - Specify the reason the technician or supplier thinks the
vehicle failed (Code Key 18).
Manufacturer - Specify the Manufacturer/Supplier Code (Code Key 34) to associate
with the vehicle.
System Level - Specify the VMRS code identifying the system, e.g., brakes, frame,
suspension, needing repair (Code Key 31).
Assembly Level - Specify the VMRS code identifying the subsystem needing repair
(Code Key 32). The values available are based on the system-level code.
Component Level - Specify the VMRS code identifying the specific component or part
needing repair (Code Key 33). The values available are based on a combination of the
system-level code and the assembly-level code.
Hired Labor - Select to indicate that the deferred maintenance will be completed by an
external source.
Labor Type - Select the type of labor needed if you selected Hired Labor.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the deferred maintenance. The system automatically
populates Supplier Org.
5. Specify this information:
Activity Comments - Enter comments or instructions for the deferred maintenance.
Work Order - Specify when ready to assign the deferred maintenance to a new work
order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

845 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Click Save Record.

Adding parts to deferred maintenance
Add, delete, change or view parts for deferred maintenance.
To add parts to deferred maintenance:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Deferred Maintenance.
2. Select the deferred maintenance for which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to add to deferred maintenance. The system automatically
populates the part description in the adjacent field, Part Source, Part Org., UOM,
Track by Asset, Track by Lot, and Planned Source.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Planned Source - Specify the planned source for the part, e.g., Direct Purchase for a
part ordered from an external source, or Stock for a part ordered from internal stock.
Planned Qty. - Specify the quantity of the part planned for the deferred maintenance.
5. Click Submit. The system automatically populates Material List.

Creating maintenance patterns
A maintenance pattern is a schedule of predefined jobs used to perform a preventive
maintenance cycle. A maintenance pattern tells how the system should generate work orders
for the maintenance pattern, and whether the resulting PM work order generation is based
primarily on a time interval (weekly, monthly, annually), or on a meter interval (ex. 3000 miles)
or both.
To create maintenance patterns:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Maintenance Pattern.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

846 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the maintenance pattern.
Maintenance Pattern - Specify a unique code identifying the maintenance pattern, and
then enter a description of the maintenance pattern in the adjacent field.
Type - Select the maintenance pattern type.
Class - Specify the maintenance pattern class. The system automatically populates
Class Org.
Meter #1 UOM - Specify the unit of measure for meter #1 for the maintenance pattern.
Meter #1 Releases Use - Select the release method for which Meter #1 uses to trigger
the release of work orders.
Meter #2 UOM - Specify the unit of measure for meter #2 for the maintenance pattern.
Meter #2 Releases Use - Select the release method for which Meter #2 uses to trigger
the release of work orders.
Pattern Start Date - Specify the start date for the maintenance pattern.
Supervisor - Specify the supervisor for the maintenance pattern.
4. Click Save Record.
The system automatically populates Created By and Date Created.
To copy the maintenance pattern, right-click and click Copy Maintenance
Pattern.

Adding sequences to maintenance patterns
A sequence defines the work to be completed on a maintenance pattern job as well as the
relative chronology in which the work will be performed within the maintenance pattern, and
the interval (time or meter) for a work order to be generated.
To add sequences to maintenance patterns:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

847 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > WO Planning > Maintenance Patterns.
2. Select the maintenance pattern for which to add a sequence, and then click the
Sequence tab.
3. Click Add Sequence.
4. Specify this information:
Sequence - Specify the sequence number for which the work will be performed.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order to associate to the sequence in the
maintenance pattern.
WO Description - Specify a description for the work order sequence.
Calculate from Basis - Select to copy the sequences of the maintenance pattern to the
new maintenance pattern.
Actual Close Date - When generating a WO, the work order due date will be the actual
closing date of the previous work order, plus the defined interval for the selected
sequence.
Due Date - When generating a WO, the WO due date will be the due date of the
previous work order plus the defined interval for the selected sequence.
Scheduled Start Date - When generating a WO, the WO due date will be the schedule
start date of the previous work order plus the defined interval for the selected sequence.
Perform After - Specify a numerical value for the period interval, and then select a
value for the perform after UOM to flag the system to schedule work orders based on
dates. For example, enter 5 for Perform After and Months for perform after UOM, which
flags the system to perform the work (or release work orders associated to the
maintenance pattern) after a 5 month interval.
You may select to flag the system to schedule work orders based on an interval
time period or a meter reading interval. If you selected a value in Perform After you
chose to flag the system to perform the work on an interval time period. If you prefer to
flag the system to perform the work on a meter reading interval, leave Perform After
blank and enter a value for Meter #1 Interval.
Meter #1 Interval - Select to flag the system to schedule the work orders, or to release

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

848 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the work orders associated to the maintenance pattern, based on meter readings.
Meter #2 Interval - Select to flag the system to schedule the work orders (or release
work orders associated to the maintenance Meter #2 Interval pattern) based on meter
readings. The system automatically populates Meter #2 UOM.
Ok Window - Specify the value to use for the Ok window.
Near Window - Specify the value to use for the near window.
Release Window - Specify the value to use for the release window.
5. Click Submit.

Managing equipment for maintenance patterns
Manage equipment for maintenance patterns by creating or deleting equipment associations.
The system performs work on equipment associated to the maintenance pattern in the
sequential order designated on the Sequences page of the Maintenance Patterns form.
Associate equipment to a maintenance pattern so that the system may create a work order for
the associated equipment. Activate maintenance patterns with initial sequences and
associated equipment to start the process of creating maintenance pattern work orders.
Deactivate maintenance patterns to stop a maintenance pattern for the selected pieces of
equipment.

Adding equipment to maintenance patterns
Add equipment to maintenance patterns.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Maintenance Patterns.
2. Select the maintenance pattern for which to add equipment, and then click the
Equipment tab.
3. Click Add Equipment.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment to add to the maintenance pattern.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

849 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment with logical meters flagged as Up/Down Meter on the Meters page
of the equipment record will not be displayed.
Due Nonconformities Only - Select to include only new observations created for
nonconformities that are due for inspection.
The inspector will not see nonconformities on the work order that are present
but not due for inspection. The inspector may be confused if he finds nonconformities
during the inspection that were not on the list, which may lead to duplicate
nonconformities
Include Nonconformities - Select to include new observations for re-inspection for
existing nonconformities.
Test Point Set - Specify the test point set for calibration of the equipment.
Dormant Start - Specify the date on which the dormant period for the PM begins.
Dormant End - Specify the date on which the dormant period for the PM ends.
Reuse Dormant Period - Select to use the same specified dormant period for the PM
on a yearly basis.
Date Deactivated - Specify the date after which work order generation stops.
WO Department - Specify the department of the work order.
WO Location - Specify the location of the work order.
WO Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the work order.
WO Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the work.
WO Assigned By - Specify the person assigning the work.
Work Order Org. - Specify the organization of the work order.
Due Date - Specify the due date of the first work order.
Meter #1 Due - Specify the reading due value for the first meter.
Meter #2 Due - Specify the reading due value for the second meter.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

850 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Alternately, click Delete Equipment to delete all equipment records and all awaiting
release work orders.
6. Click Submit.

• If you populate any of the replacement values (for example, WO Department, WO
Location, WO Cost Code, WO Assigned To or WO Assigned By), the default
values from the equipment record are replaced when a maintenance pattern work
order is created with these replacement values.
• To activate a maintenance pattern for equipment, click Activate MP.
• To deactivate a maintenance pattern for equipment, click Deactivate MP.

Activating maintenance patterns for equipment
Start the maintenance pattern for selected equipment, which will generate the first work order
for all selected equipment.
To activate maintenance patterns for equipment:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Maintenance Patterns.
2. Select the maintenance pattern to activate for equipment, and then click the Equipment
tab.
3. Click Activate MP.
4. Specify this information:
Initial Sequence - Specify the sequence number that the pattern will use to create the
first maintenance pattern work order.
A maintenance pattern does not to necessarily start with the first sequence in
the list of Sequences on the Sequence tab.
Due Date - Specify the due date of the initial work order.
Meter #1 Due - Specify the reading due value for the first meter. The system
automatically populates Meter #1 UOM.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

851 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Meter #2 Due - Specify the reading due value for the second meter. The system
automatically populates Meter #2 UOM.
5. Select one or more equipment records, and then click Submit.

Deactivating maintenance patterns for equipment
Stop the maintenance pattern for selected equipment, which will delete the work order for
equipment.
The system deletes only work orders with Status of Awaiting Release.
The system deactivates the maintenance pattern and flags the selected equipment Inactive.
To deactivate maintenance patterns for equipment:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Maintenance Patterns.
2. Select the maintenance pattern to deactivate for equipment, and then click the
Equipment tab.
3. Click Deactivate MP.
4. Select one or more records, and then click Submit.

Viewing work orders for maintenance patterns
View and select work orders associated with maintenance patterns.
To view work orders for maintenance patterns:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Maintenance Patterns.
2. Select the maintenance pattern for which to view work orders, and then click the Work
Orders tab.
3. View the list of work orders.
To select a work order in the list, click on the work order.

Copying maintenance patterns

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

852 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Copy existing child records and header records from an existing maintenance pattern to a
new maintenance pattern.
To copy maintenance patterns:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Maintenance Patterns.
2. Select the maintenance pattern for which to copy records, and then click the Record
View tab.
3. Right-click on the form, and then select Copy Maintenance Pattern.
4. Specify this information:
New Maintenance Pattern - Specify a unique identifying name for the new
maintenance pattern, and then enter a description of the maintenance pattern in the
adjacent field.
5. Select the related details to copy to the new maintenance pattern:
• Custom Field Values
• User Defined Fields
• Sequences
• Equipment
• Discounts
• Comments
• Documents
6. Click Submit.
7. Click Submit.

Scheduling work orders daily
Schedule work orders on a daily basis on the WO Daily Scheduling form.
To schedule work orders daily, first define the selection criteria for the following four

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

853 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

classifications:
1. Equipment selection parameters
2. Work order selection parameters
3. Activity selection parameters
4. Employee selection parameters

Defining parameters for work order daily scheduling
Create and update selection parameters for scheduling daily work orders on the WO Daily
Scheduling page.
On the Parameters page, define the selection criteria for locating work orders, activities,
employees, and equipment to display on the Equipment, WO Activity, and Employee
Preview tabs.
To define parameters for work order daily scheduling:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling.
2. Select the saved selection parameters if applicable.
3. Specify this information to define work order selection parameters:
Session ID - Enter the ID for the session.
Enter Session ID if you are working on an existing session. If you are creating
a new session, the system automatically populates Session ID after you click
Create/Refresh Previews.
Work Order Org. - Specify the work order organization.
Work Order - Specify the work order.
WO Department - Specify the department of the work order.
WO PM Schedule - Specify the PM schedule for the work order.
WO Project - Specify the project of the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

854 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

WO Project Budget - Specify the project budget of the work order.
WO Equipment - Specify the equipment of the work order.
WO Equipment Org. - Specify the equipment organization of the work order.
WO Location - Specify the location of the work order.
WO Location Org. - Specify the location organization of the work order.
WO Type - Specify the work order type.
WO Priority - Specify the work order priority.
WO Status - Specify the status of the work order.
WO Reported By - Specify the employee requesting the work.
WO Assigned To - Specify the employee responsible for the work order.
WO Assigned By - Specify the supervisor who assigned the work order.
WO Class - Specify the class of the work order.
WO Class Org. - Specify the class organization of the work order.
WO Criticality - Specify the criticality code to indicate the relevant importance of the
work order to the overall production of goods or services for your organization.
WO Shift - Specify the shift during which the work is requested to be performed.
WO Maintenance Pattern - Specify the maintenance pattern to which the work order
belongs.
WO MP Org. - Specify the maintenance pattern organization to which the work order
belongs.
Sequence - Specify the sequence for which the work order will be performed on the
maintenance pattern.
Campaign - Specify the campaign to which the work order belongs.
Campaign Event - Specify the campaign event to which the work order belongs.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

855 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Maximum Calculated Priority - Specify the maximum calculated priority of the work
order. Work orders with a value equal or less than the value entered here will be
selected.
4. Specify this information to define equipment selection parameters:
Equipment - Specify the equipment to use for daily work order scheduling.
Equipment Org. - Specify the organization of the equipment.
Equipment Type - Specify the type of equipment.
Equipment Status - Specify the status of the equipment.
Equipment Class - Specify the class of the equipment.
Equipment Class Org. - Specify the class organization of the equipment.
Equipment Category - Specify the category of the equipment.
Equipment Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the equipment.
Equipment Department - Specify the department of the equipment.
Equipment Parent Equipment - Specify the parent equipment of the equipment. Select
more than one parent equipment if applicable.
Equipment Parent Equipment Org. - Specify the parent equipment organization of the
equipment.
Equipment Location - Specify the location of the equipment.
Equipment Location Org. - Specify the location organization of the equipment.
Operational Status - Specify the operational status of the equipment to indicate if the
equipment is in working order, ready for use, and available for scheduling.
Consist - Specify the consist to which the equipment belongs.
Skip Equipment Selection Process - Select this check box to skip the process of
previewing and selecting equipment. If this check box is selected, the system will not
populate the Equipment tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

856 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Specify this information to define work order activity selection parameters:
Trade - Specify the activity trade.
Activity Task Plan - Specify the activity task plan.
Beginning Activity Start Date - Specify the beginning start date for the activity.
Ending Activity Start Date - Specify the ending start date for the activity.
Allow Activities on Different Sessions - Select this check box to allow the activity to
be selected on more than one scheduling session.
6. Specify this information to define employee selection parameters:
Employee Department - Specify the department of the employee.
Employee Class - Specify the class of the employee.
Employee Class Org. - Specify the class organization for the employee.
Employee Trade - Specify the employee's trade or craft.
Shift - Specify the shift on which the employee works.
Crew - Specify the crew of the employee.
Crew Org. - Specify the crew organization of the employee.
7. Specify this information to define a date range for the scheduled work order:
Start Date - Specify the start date for the scheduled work order.
End Date - Specify the end date for the scheduled work order.
8. Specify this information to define the scheduling options for the work order:
Threshold Percent Between Lightly/Moderately Scheduled - Specify the percentage
of daily employee available hours to designate the point at which the calendar switches
between lightly scheduled and moderately scheduled.
Unscheduled (% Scheduled=0) Color - Specify the color to designate the
unscheduled days on the calendar view.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

857 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Lightly Scheduled (% Scheduled < Threshold) Color - Specify the color to designate
the lightly scheduled days on the calendar view.
Moderately Scheduled (% Scheduled >= Threshold) Color - Specify the color to
designate the moderately scheduled days on the calendar view.
Fully Scheduled (% Scheduled = 100) Color - Specify the color to designate the fully
scheduled days on the calendar view.
Over Scheduled (% Scheduled > 100) Color - Specify the color to designate the over
scheduled days on the calendar view.
Generate Availability Through - Specify the date through which to generate
scheduling availability.
Exclude Duration from Scheduled Hours Calculation - Select the check box to
exclude the duration time from the calculations of the scheduled hours.
Exclude People Required from Scheduled Hours Calculation - Exclude the number
of people required from the calculations of hours scheduled.
Shift Scheduling - Select this check box to schedule labor for one shift. If selected the
session becomes a shift scheduling session and you can still add or remove equipment,
work orders, and employees to or from the session.
Shift Start - Specify the date and time the shift should start.
Shift Duration - Specify the duration of the shift in hours.
9. Click Create/Refresh Previews.
The system automatically populates Session ID for new sessions.

Selecting equipment for work order daily scheduling
Preview the equipment before selecting equipment to use for work order daily scheduling.
Once equipment selections have been made, proceed to the WO Activity Preview page, the
Employee Preview page, or to the Scheduling page.
To select equipment for work order daily scheduling:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

858 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling.
2. Select the saved selection parameters to open an existing session.
3. Click the Equipment Preview tab.
Click Create Refresh Preview to display the results on the Preview tab
without entering a parameter list.
4. Select the equipment for which to perform work order daily scheduling, and then choose
one of the following options:
• WO Activity Preview - Click the tab to preview and select work order activities for
work order daily scheduling.
• Start Labor Scheduling - Click to start labor scheduling.

Selecting work order activities for work order daily scheduling
Preview the work order activities before selecting the activities to use for work order daily
scheduling. Once the activity selections have been made, proceed to the Employee Preview
page, or to the Scheduling page.
To select work order activities for work order daily scheduling:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling.
2. Select the saved selection parameters to open an existing session.
3. Click the WO Activity Preview tab.
Click Create Refresh Preview to display the results on the Preview tab
without entering a parameter list.
4. Select the work order and activities for which to perform work order daily scheduling,
and then choose one of the following options:
• Employee Preview - Click to preview and select employees for work order daily
scheduling.
• Equipment Preview - Click to preview and select equipment for work order daily
scheduling.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

859 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Start Labor Scheduling - Click to start labor scheduling.

Selecting employees for work order daily scheduling
Preview and select employees for work order daily scheduling based on employee selection
parameters specified on the Parameters page. Once employees have been selected,
proceed to the Scheduling page to schedule the daily work orders.
To select employees for work order daily scheduling:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling.
2. Select the saved selection parameters from the Parameter List.
Click Create Refresh Preview to display the results on the Preview tab
without entering a parameter list.
3. Click the Employee Preview tab.
4. Select the employees for which to perform work order daily scheduling, and then click
Start Labor Scheduling.

Scheduling labor for work order daily scheduling sessions
Review and modify employee schedule information, work order details, activity schedules,
planned parts availability, and booked labor for an activity.
To schedule employees for work order daily scheduling sessions:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling.
2. Select the saved selection parameters for an existing scheduling session.
3. Click the Scheduling tab.
4. To filter employees, click Filter Employee.
5. Choose one of the following options:
• Match Department - Select to display employees in the same department.
• Match Trade - Select to display employees in the same trade.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

860 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Match Shift - Select to display employees on the same shift.
• Qualified Employees - Select to display qualified employees for the highlighted
work order activity(s).
6. Drag and drop work order activities to selected employee calendar days. The system
creates the appropriate labor schedule record.
Drag more than one work order activity at a time to an employee calendar day.
The system creates a labor schedule record for each work order activity for the
employee calendar day.
Drag one employee calendar day to another calendar day for same employee, e.g.,
drag Wednesday to Friday. The system updates the scheduled date for each labor
schedule record(s) on the dragged employee calendar day.
Drag one employee calendar day to another employee calendar day. The system
deletes the labor schedule record(s) on the dragged employee calendar day and
creates the necessary labor schedule records on the dropped employee calendar day.
See the following table for more options on work order daily scheduling sessions:

Icon Hover Text

Description

Results

WO Details

View and modify work order The system opens
and activity details for the
the WO Details
selected work order activity popup.

Activity Schedule

View and modify labor
schedules for the selected
work order activity

The system opens
the Labor
Schedules popup.

View Planned Part Availability

View planned part
availability for the selected
work order activity

The system opens
the Planned Part
Availability popup.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

861 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Part Availability Overlay

View available dates for
selected materials to
schedule work order
activities

The system
protects or shades
the calendar grid
cell dates if all
work order activity
material list parts
are unavailable. If
a calendar grid cell
is protected due to
part overlay
(unavailability),
then the system
cannot schedule
the work order
activity for that
particular date.

View Activity Booked Labor

View booked labor for work The system opens
order activity for the
the Booked Labor
selected work order activity popup.

Previous Week

View the previous week

The system
advances the
calendar gird to
the previous week.

Go To Week

View a specific week

The system opens
a calendar popup.
Select the Start
Date.

Next Week

View the following week

The system
advances the
calendar grid

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

862 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

forward one week.

Filter Employees

Filter Employees

The system
displays employee
filter options.

Employee Schedules

View and modify labor
schedules for selected
employees

The system opens
the Labor
Schedules popup.

View Employee Booked Labor

View booked labor for the
selected employee

The system opens
the Booked
Schedules popup.

Close Session and Update Work
Orders

Close the session and
update work orders

The system closes
the session,
updates and
creates activity
labor schedules
outside the
session, and
returns to the
Parameters page.

Cancel Session

Cancel the session

The system
cancels the
session.

Modifying work order details
View and modify work order and activity details on the Scheduling page of the WO Daily
Scheduling form.
A work order activity must be highlighted in the grid prior to performing this action.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

863 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To modify work order details:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling > Daily Scheduling.
2. Select a work order activity for which to modify details, and then click WO Details.
3. Specify this information:
New Work Order Status - Select the new work order status.
Hours Remaining to be Worked - Specify or modify the hours remaining to be worked
for the activity.
Completed - Select if the work for the activity has been completed.
4. Click Submit.

Modifying labor schedules for work order activities
View and modify labor schedules for selected work order activities on the Daily Scheduling
page of the WO Daily Scheduling form.
A work order activity must be highlighted in the grid prior to performing this action.
To create or modify labor schedules for work order activities:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling.
2. Select the work order activity for which to modify labor schedules, and then click
Activity Schedule.
3. Choose one of the following options:
• Add Employee to Session - Click to add employees Not in Session to a
selected labor schedule.
• Add Schedule - Click to add a labor schedule to the work order activity.
Enter the Employee, Scheduled Date, and then enter Start Time and End Time,
or enter the Scheduled Hours for the selected work order activity. Enter the
Department and Shift of the employee. Click Submit.
• Add WO to Session - Click to add activities from a work order Not in Session.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

864 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Viewing planned part availability for work order activities
View planned part availability for work order activities to display in a list of parts that have
been planned for a work order activity.
To view planned part availability for work order activities:
1. Select a work order activity, and then click View Planned Part Availability.
2. Specify this information:
Store - Enter a different store for which to view part availability information as
necessary. The system displays availability in the default Store for the work order
Department when the popup opens.
3. Click Close.

Modifying labor schedules for employees
View and modify labor schedules for selected employees on the Scheduling page of the WO
Daily Scheduling form.
To modify labor schedules for employees:
1. Select an employee, and then click Employee Schedule.
2. Click Add Schedule.
3. Specify this information:
WO - Enter the work order for which to add an employee schedule. The system
automatically populates the work order description, Tools, Frozen, Not in Session,
Act. Est. Hours, Act. Sched. Hours, and Act. Actual Hours.
Activity-Trade - Select the activity and trade for the employee labor schedule.
Scheduled Date - Select the scheduled start date of the work order activity.
Scheduled Hours - Specify the number of hours to schedule for the work order.
Start Time - Specify the time the scheduled work order should begin.
End Time - Specify the time the scheduled work order should end.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

865 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Department - Specify the department of the employee.
Shift - Specify the employee's shift on the work order.
4. Click Submit.
5. Click Close.
To add activity labor schedules to the session, click Add WO to Session.

Viewing booked labor for work order activities
View the booked labor of employees for work order activities.
To view booked labor for work order activities:
1. Select a work order activity, and then click View Activity Booked Labor.
2. View the information.
3. Click Close.

Viewing booked labor for employees
View all booked labor for selected employees.
To view booked labor for employees:
1. Select an employee, and then click View Employee Booked Labor.
2. View the information.
3. Click Close.

Scheduling employees on shifts for work order daily scheduling
Schedule work for employees to a selected shift on the WO Daily Scheduling form.
Drag and drop employees on work order activities to schedule them to shifts for the work
order activity or selected equipment on the work order activity.
This tab cannot be used for daily scheduling.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

866 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To schedule employees on shifts for work order daily scheduling:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling.
2. Select the saved selection parameters from the Parameter List to open an existing
session for which to schedule employees on shifts.
3. Click the Shift Scheduling tab.
Work order activity cards are displayed on the left-side of the page while
associated trades and employees are displayed on the right-side of the page.
4. Choose one of the following options to display work order activity cards on the screen:
• Equipment - Select the equipment associated with the work order activities you
want to display so that you can schedule employees.
• Show Scheduled - Select this check box to display all work order activities of the
session. Work order activities with a completed or already scheduled status will be
displayed.
5. Click Filter Trades to filter the available employees by specific trade or to show
available employees for all trades. Select Show All to display all of the employees and
work order activities of the open session.
6. Drag and drop available employees to the work order activity cards for which to
schedule the employee.

Viewing employee schedules for work order daily scheduling
View the employee schedules for work order daily scheduling, and then update the scheduled
hours for the employee or for a work order activity as necessary.
To view employee schedules for work order daily scheduling:
1. Select Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling.
2. Click the Shift Scheduling tab.
3. Optionally, select the Show Scheduled check box to display the existing labor
scheduled for the work order/activities and employee/trade combinations.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

867 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Select an employee in the Trades/Employees section of the form, right-click on the
employee, and then click the View Employee Schedule.
5. Specify this information in the View Employee Schedule popup:
Main Resource - Select to indicate the employee is the main resource for the specified
work order-activity.
Scheduled Hours - Specify the hours to schedule the employee for the specified work
order-activity.
6. Click Submit to close the View Employee Schedule popup and return to the Shift
Scheduling tab.
7. Drag and drop employees to work order/activity cards as necessary to schedule the
employee to work order-activity, and to create a scheduled labor record for the
employee on the Schedule Labor tab.
Hover over the work order cards with an assigned employee to view the hours
scheduled for that work order.
8. Click Submit.
9. Click Close.

Managing work order activities and jobs on the mechanic's
workbench
The Mechanic's Workbench screen allows mechanics to view all work order activities and
jobs that have been assigned to the mechanic for selected shift sessions for a particular day
on the Shift Scheduling form. Use this form to start and stop work order activities and/or
jobs, update their status to completed, or view equipment and work order details.
To manage work order activities and jobs on the mechanic's workbench:
1. Select Work > Mechanic's Workbench.
2. Specify this employee information:
Employee - Enter your employee code if it was not automatically populated based on
your logged on user ID and password. The system automatically populates Employee
Name.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

868 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Shift - Specify the shift for which you are managing work. The system automatically
populates Shift Scheduling Session, Shift Start, and Shift Duration if the session
already exists and you were scheduled for the work order activity/job on the Shift
Scheduling form.
The system defaults shifts in eight hour increments of time. If more than one
shift scheduling session is found for you, the session with the earliest start time is
selected.
If more than one shift scheduling session is found for you with the same start time, the
previous shift scheduling session is selected so that you may finish the previous
session.
You cannot work on more than one work order at the same time. If you start to perform
work on an additional work order, performance on the first work order is stopped.
Type of Hours - Specify hour occupation type for this work, e.g., select N for normal
hours or O for overtime hours.
Password - Enter your employee password for the current session.
3. Select the work order activity or job for which to manage work. The system
automatically populates the associated Work Order and Equipment. The work order
and equipment become hyperlinks.
4. Choose one of the following options:
• Start Job - Click Start Job to start work on the selected activity or job. The
system automatically populates Started to indicate the work was started and sets
the Timer to zero.
The system creates a selected scheduled labor record ID to differentiate
between multiple scheduled labor records for the same activity and employee
combination.
The timer calculates how much time has passed since the work was started.
• Stop Job - Click Stop Job to stop work on the selected activity or job.
• Complete Job - Click Complete Job if the work on the selected activity or job has
been completed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

869 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Managing customer contracts
Manage contracts with customers by creating contract templates to specify work order
criteria, associate clauses, charges, discounts, and sales prices with specific customers.
Define customer rental contracts and contracts to create customer invoices.

Defining adjustments
Define adjustments to apply to customer contracts and reservations to quickly identify extra
charges or discounts for the contract. An adjustment could be an extra charge for damaged
equipment or a late return of a rented vehicle.
Similarly you may also define discounts or credits on the Adjustments form by entering a
negative rate for the adjustment.
When defining adjustments on this form, associate a standard work order to the adjustment to
enable users to create a work order from an adjustment for the customer contract or
reservation, if required.
To define adjustments:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Adjustments.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the adjustment.
Adjustment - Specify a unique code identifying the adjustment, and then enter a
description of the adjustment in the adjacent field.
Rate - Specify the rate for the adjustment, e.g., enter 100 for an extra charge of $100, or
enter -100 for a $100 credit.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order to associate with the adjustment. When
a work order is created from the adjustment on the customer contract, this standard
work order is applied.
Out of Service - Select to exclude the adjustment in lookups.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

870 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Save Record.

Defining contract templates
Create a template to define an actual contract with a customer. Include high level contract
details, charge definitions, contract clauses, and comments. After creating a template, use the
template to quickly create a contract or modify a contract.
To define contract templates:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Contract Templates.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the contract template.
Contract Template - Specify a unique code identifying the contract template, and then
a description of the contract template in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the contract template. The system copies the class to the
contract along with any custom fields defined on the template.
Contract Class - Specify the class of the contract. This value is copied to the contract
along with any custom fields defined on the template.
Default Invoice Status - Select the default status for the invoice after the automatic
invoice generation process is complete.
Where Used - Select Customer Contract or Rental Contract to specify where the
template will be used.
Rounding Hours - Select the method by which to round the hours for the invoice.
Rounding Days - Select the method by which to round the days for the invoice.
Hourly Invoicing Start Time - Specify the daily time in hours and minutes to begin
invoicing the customer for the contract.
Hourly Invoicing End Time - Specify the daily time in hours and minutes to stop
invoicing the customer for the contract.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

871 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Invoice Every - Specify the number, and then select the interval by which to invoice
customers on the contract. For example, enter 2 and then select Week to invoice the
customer every 2 weeks.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to exclude the contract template in the
list of values on the Customer Contract and Rental forms.
5. Click Save Record.

Defining work order criteria for contract templates
Specify which work orders to include on the invoice. Work order selection criteria includes
department, work order class, and work order type.
To define work order criteria for contract templates:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Contract Templates.
2. Select the contract template for which to define work order criteria, and then click the
WO Criteria tab.
3. Click Add WO Criteria.
4. Specify this information:
Department - Enter the department of the work orders to include on the invoice. The
system automatically populates the department description in the adjacent field.
WO Class - Enter the class of the work orders to include on the invoice. The system
automatically populates WO Class Org. and the work order class description in the
adjacent field.
WO Type - Enter the type of the work orders to include on the invoice. Select to include
Breakdown, Preventive Maintenance, Default work order type, Calibration, Direct
Issue, Repairable Spare, Standard WO, or Scheduled work order types on the
invoice.
Grouping - Enter a unique name to identify the grouping of selected work order types.
The system references the group on the invoice for easy identification.
The system allows more than one grouping for the same work order type. If

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

872 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

more than one grouping is found for the same work order type, the system selects the
first grouping for reference on the invoice.
5. Click Submit.

Associating clauses with contract templates
Associate clauses with contract templates to define agreements for the customer contracts.
To associate clauses with contract templates:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Contract Templates.
2. Select the contract template for which to associate clauses, and then click the Clauses
tab.
3. Click Add Clause.
4. Specify this information:
Contract Clause - Specify a predefined ISO clause or a user-defined clause. You can
associate multiple clauses with a contract template. The system automatically populates
Organization and the contract clause description.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number for the clause.
5. Click Submit.

Associating sales prices with contract templates
Associate sales prices for entities (parts, tasks, PM schedules, standard work orders, and
service problem codes) to create invoice lines using a fixed sales price rather than the actual
work order costs (part issues, time sheets, tool costs) tracked by the system.
Sales prices defined on the contract template level will be copied to the contract when the
template is referenced on that contract. These sales prices will take precedence over any
sales prices directly associated to any of the entities. So a sales price for a bearing can be
overwritten on contract level if desired and this price will then be invoiced, otherwise the
standard sales price of the bearing defined on the Parts form is used.
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Contract Templates.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

873 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the contract template for which to associate sales prices, and then click the
Sales Prices tab.
3. Click Add Sales Price.
4. Specify this information:
Entity - Select the entity for which to associate sales prices.
Date Effective - Specify the date this sales price will go into effect.
Code - Specify the system code associated with the entity.
Organization - Specify the organization to associate to the sales prices. This
Organization will use these sales prices.
Sales Price - Specify the sales price to associate with the entity for the customer
contract created from this template. The currency is automatically populated based on
the selected Organization.
Store - Specify the store to associate with the sales price when parts entities are
selected. If no Store is entered, the system applies the sales price to all stores in the
selected Organization that are not specifically mentioned.
Condition - Specify the condition if the entity is a part that is a condition tracked parent
part. If the selected entity for the part is a condition tracked child part, Condition is
automatically populated.
5. Click Submit.

Defining charges for contract templates
Specify the charges to invoice to customers, including work order, fuel, and lease charges.
These charges defined on the template form the basis for the charges used on the customer
contract and customer rental.
To define charges for contract templates:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Contract Templates.
2. Select the contract template for which to define charges, and then click the Charge
Definitions tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

874 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Invoicing Org. - Specify the organization responsible for the invoicing.
Charge Category - Select the category of the charges for this template. Select from
Sales Transactions, WO Charges, Fuel Charges, Energy Charges, Usage Charges,
or One Time Charges.
You can combine different charges on a template or a contract.
Charge Level - Select the level for the charges. Select Subcategory Adjustment or
Charge Category Adjustment.
Charge Subcategory - Select the subcategory of the charges for this template based
on the Charge Category previously selected. For example, for Fuel Charges, select
from Diesel, Premium, any other fuels you defined, or All Fuels.
For Fuel Charges define fuels in the fuel management area; for Energy
Charges define commodities on the Commodities form; for Usage Charges define
subcategories on system codes entity CCOC; and for one One Time Charges define
subcategories on the system entity CCOC.
Invoicing Description - Specify a description of the charge to include on the invoice.
Invoice - Select to invoice the customer for the charges defined here.
Invoice Conditional - Select if there are conditions associated with the invoice for
these charges.

• If Invoice Conditional is selected on this Charge Level, if the lower Charge
levels add up to zero dollars no additional charges are determined on this level.
• If Invoice Conditional is not selected, charges on this level may be applied
although lower level charges add up to zero.
Rate - Specify the rate for the charges defined here.
Rate is required for usage and one-time charges, and can also be used

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

875 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

optionally on energy charges.
Adjustment Unit Price - Specify the adjustment to apply to the transaction price.
Adjustment Transaction - Specify the adjustment to apply to the transaction.
Adjustment % Before - Specify the percent with which to adjust the transaction
amount prior to price or transaction adjustments are applied.
Adjustment % After - Specify the percent with which to adjust the transaction
amount after, Before %, price or transaction adjustments are applied.
Minimum Quantity - Specify the minimum quantity to invoice.
Minimum Charge - Specify the minimum amount to invoice.
Maximum Charge - Specify the maximum amount to invoice.
Free Up To - Specify a monetary amount to designate the amount by which the
invoice will be reduced, or the amount that is free of cost. E.g., the first $250 of
work order charges are free.
Taxable - Select to indicate this transaction line is taxable on the invoice.
Usage UOM - Specify the unit of measure, e.g., miles, kilometers that the system
will apply to the usage-based rate.
Charge Estimated Usage - Select to add estimates for the usage and energy
consumption of the equipment to the periodic invoices.
Rollover - Select to roll over the difference between the actual usage and
Minimum Quantity invoiced when actual usage is less than Minimum Quantity.
Trade - Specify the trade for the charge definition. Trade is only relevant for work
order charges.
Type of Hours - Specify the type of hours for the charge category on the invoice.
Part Class - Specify the part class for the charge definition. Part Class is only
relevant for work order charges.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

876 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Associating discounts with contract templates
Add, update, and delete discount charges for contract templates.
To associate discounts for contract templates:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Contract Templates.
2. Select the contract template for which to associate discounts, and then click the
Discounts tab.
3. Click Add Discount.
4. Specify this information:
Minimum Value - Specify the minimum charge value for which the discount should
apply, and then enter the currency in the adjacent field.
Discount % - Specify the discount percentage to apply once the minimum value
threshold is met.
5. Optionally, select the Apply to Each Invoice check box to apply the discount to each
individual invoice. If unselected the discount is associated to the contract level and
takes all invoices for the contract into consideration.
6. Optionally, select the Apply to Full Amount check box to apply the discount to the full
amount of the invoice or the contract. If unselected the system applies the discount to
the difference between the invoice or contract total amount and Minimum Value.
7. Click Submit.

Copying contract templates
Copy the header details and child records of customer contract templates to quickly create a
new template.
To copy contract templates:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Contract Templates.
2. Select the contract template to copy, and then click the Record View tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

877 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Right-click on the form, and then select Copy Contract Template.
4. Specify this information:
New Template Code - Specify a unique code identifying the new contract template, and
then enter a description of the contract template in the adjacent field.
5. Select the related details to copy to the new contract template:
• Custom Field Values
• Clauses
• WO Criteria
• Sales Prices
• Discounts
• Charge Definitions
• Commodities
• Comments
• Documents
6. Click Submit.

Defining customer contracts
Define new contracts for customers. The customer contract details information such as
charges, clauses, comments, and invoice details.
To define customer contracts:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the customer contract belongs.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

878 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Customer Contract - Specify a unique code identifying the customer contract, and then
enter a description of the customer contract in the adjacent field.
Customer - Specify the customer for which to create the contract. The system
automatically populates Customer Org.
Status - Select the status of the customer contract.
Contract Template - Specify the template with which to create the customer contract.
The template selected defines the high level details of this contract. The system
automatically populates Contract Template Org.
Class - Specify the class of the customer contract. The system automatically populates
Class Org.
Tax Code - Specify the tax code to associate with the customer contract.
Start Date - Specify the date the customer contract becomes available.
End Date - Specify the date the customer contract is no longer available.
Revisit Date - Specify the date for which to revisit the customer contract.
Customer Contact - Specify the person to contact about the contract.
Specify the customer's Phone Number and Email Address.
Email Invoice - Select to email the customer contact the invoice for the contract.
Invoice Every - Specify the time period for which to invoice the customer by entering an
integer, and then selecting the time period unit of measure. For example: Enter 2 and
then select Weeks to invoice the customer every 2 Weeks.
Next Invoice Date - Specify the next date for which to generate an invoice for the
customer.
Offset Invoice Generation - Specify the number of days for which to offset or delay the
generation of the next invoice. Example: Enter 15 to offset generation of the next invoice
by 15 days.
Default Invoice Status - Select the default status to define for all invoices generated for
the customer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

879 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Default Invoicing Organization - Specify the default organization to define for all
invoices generated for the customer.
Invoicing Currency - Specify the currency of the invoices for the customer.
Use Fixed Exchange Rates - Select to use fixed exchange rates for the customer
when Invoicing Currency and Invoicing Org. differ. The system defaults the exchange
rate with the current active exchange rate where the base currency is the Invoicing
Org.'s currency and the foreign currency is the Invoicing Currency.
Sync Fixed Exchange Rates - Select to sync fixed exchange rates when more than
one exchange rate is found for the Invoicing Currency and Invoicing Org., or no
exchange rate can be found. The system applies the current active exchange rate to the
contract items.
Closed WO Only - Select to display only the work orders with a Closed status on the
invoice.
Rounding Hours - Select hourly rounding options for the contract. Round the hours of
the contract up 15 minutes, down 15 minutes, up 30 minutes, down 30 minutes, or elect
not to round the contract hours.
Rounding Days - Select daily rounding options for the contract. Round the days of the
contract up, down, or elect not to round the contract days.
Hourly Invoicing Start Time - Specify the time in hours and minutes (ex. 3:00) that the
system will begin to invoice the customer for the contract work.
Hourly Invoicing End Time - Specify the time in hours and minutes (ex. 23:00) that the
system will stop invoicing the customer for the contract work.
4. Click Save Record.
The system automatically populates Last Invoice Date, Last Invoice, Amount
Invoiced, Revision, Requested By, Date Requested, Approved By, Date Approved,
and Revision Reason.

• Click Create New Revision to create a new revision of the contract from any previous
revision of the contract when the previous revision has a system status other than

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

880 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Unfinished or Request Approval.
• Click Copy Contract to copy the header details and child records of the customer
contract. See Copying customer contracts.
• Click Reset Contract Charge Definitions to reset manual changes applied to the
charge definitions for this contract.

Defining contract items for customer contracts
Define contract items and details for customer contracts. Contract items consist of equipment,
projects, or work orders to include on the customer contract. A contract may have many items
associated.
To define contract items for customer contracts:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts.
2. Select the customer contract for which to define contract items, and then click the
Contract Items tab.
3. Click Add Contract Item.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment to include on the customer contract. The system
automatically populates Equipment Org.
Project - Specify the project to include on the customer contract.
Project Budget - Specify the project budget to include on the customer contract.
Work Order - Specify the work order to include on the customer contract.
Customer - Specify the customer. This can be the customer associated to the contract
on the header or any of the children of that customer. The system automatically
populates Customer Org.
Invoicing Org. - Specify the invoicing organization that will collect the charges for this
contract item.
Tax Code - Specify the tax rate to be applied to the cost of the contract item.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

881 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Contract Template - Specify the contract template for the selected project, project
budget, work order, or equipment. The system automatically populates Contract
Template Org.
Use this feature to define charge definitions specifically for this contract item if
they are different from the other contract items.
Invoicing Description - Specify a description that will be printed on the invoice.
Use Fixed Exchange Rate - Select to use fixed exchange rates for the contract item
when Invoicing Currency and the currency of the Invoicing Org. differ. The system
defaults the exchange rate with the current active exchange rate where the base
currency is the Invoicing Org.'s currency and the foreign currency is the Invoicing
Currency.
Exchange Rate - Specify the exchange rate for the currency. The system will use this
rate if the invoicing currency is different from the invoicing organization currency.
Usage Quantity - Specify the usage quantity of the contract item to be used on the
customer contract invoice.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure of the usage quantity of the contract item.
Sales Price - Specify the sales price of the equipment.
Exercise Option - Select to exercise the equipment sales options specified on this
form.
Exercise Date - Specify the date for which to exercise the equipment sales options.
Sales Tax Code - Specify the sales tax code of the equipment.
Equipment Status After Sale - Select the status of the equipment after the automatic
invoice generation process is complete and the equipment is sold.
5. Click Submit.

• To translate the invoicing description, select a record, and then click Translate
Invoicing Description. View and edit the translated descriptions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

882 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To reset all charge definitions referenced with the contract items for the current
contract revision, click Reset All Charge Definitions.
• To reset the charge definitions for a particular contract item for this contract
revision only, select the contract item record for which to reset charge definitions,
and then click Reset Charge Definitions.
• To refresh all tax codes for all contract items for the current contract revision, click
Reset All Tax Codes.
• To refresh all contract templates for all contract items for the current contract
revision, click Reset All Contract Templates.
• To reset the selected contract item for this contract revision only, click Reset
Contract Template.

Associating discounts with customer contracts
Add, update, or delete discounts on customer contracts.
To associate discounts with customer contracts:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts.
2. Select the customer contract with which to associate discounts, and then click the
Discounts tab.
3. Click Add Discount.
4. Specify this information:
Minimum Value - Specify the minimum charge value for which the discount should
apply, and then enter the currency in the adjacent field.
Discount % - Specify the discount percentage to apply once the minimum value
threshold is met.
5. Optionally, select the Apply to Each Invoice check box to apply the discount to all
invoices regardless of whether the contract invoice reaches the minimum value
threshold.
6. Optionally, select the Apply to Full Amount check box to apply the discount to the full

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

883 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

amount of the invoice or contract. If unselected, the discount is applied to the difference
between the net amount plus adjustments and Minimum Value.
7. Click Submit.

Defining work order criteria for customer contracts
Specify which work orders to include on an invoice by defining work order criteria and
associating to any customer contract. Work order selection criteria includes department, work
order class, and work order type.
If you do not define work order criteria for a contract, the system includes all work orders for
selection on the invoice.
To define work order criteria for customer contracts:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts.
2. Select the customer contract for which to define work order criteria, and then click the
WO Criteria tab.
3. Click Add WO Criteria.
If * is entered for any of the work order criteria specified below, the system
includes all values for that selection on the invoice.
4. Specify this information:
Department - Enter the department of the work orders to include on the invoice. The
system automatically populates the department description in the adjacent field.
WO Class - Enter the class of the work orders to include on the invoice. The system
automatically populates WO Class Org. and the work order class description in the
adjacent field.
WO Type - Enter the type of the work orders to include on the invoice. Select to include
Breakdown, Preventive Maintenance, or Scheduled work order types on the invoice.
Grouping - Enter a unique name to identify the grouping of selected work order types.
The system references the group on the invoice for easy identification.
The system allows more than one grouping for the same work order type. If

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

884 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

more than one grouping is found for the same work order type, the system selects the
first grouping for reference on the invoice.
5. Click Submit.

Associating commodities with customer contracts
Associate an energy-related commodity with a customer contract to invoice energy costs to
customers. Associating energy-related commodities to a customer contract simplifies energyrelated setup of charge definitions.
To associate commodities with customer contracts:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts.
2. Select the customer contract with which to associate commodities, and then click the
Commodities tab.
3. Click Add Commodity.
4. Specify this information:
Commodity - Specify the commodity to associate with the selected customer contract.
The system automatically populates the description of the commodity and Commodity
Org.
5. Click Submit.
Adding energy commodities to a customer contract may automatically generate
energy-related charge definitions for equipment associated to the contract.

Defining sales prices for customer contracts
Define sales prices for specific entities on a customer contract. Use the sales prices defined
here for sales transactions on the customer contract. Sales prices can be defined for specific
entities Parts, Tasks, PM Schedules, Standard Work Orders and Service Problem Codes to
create invoice lines using a fixed sales price rather than use the actual work order costs
tracked by the system, like part issues, time sheets, tool costs, etc.
To define sales prices for customer contracts:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

885 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts.
2. Select the customer contract for which to define sales prices, and then click the Sales
Prices tab.
3. Click Add Sales Price.
4. Specify this information:
Entity - Select the entity for which to define sales prices. Choose from the following list
of entities:
• Parts
• Tasks
• PM Schedules
• Standard work order
• Service problem codes
Code - Specify the code for the entity.
Organization - Specify the organization of the selected code.
Sales Price - Specify the sales price to specify for the selected entity.
Store - Select the store of the entity.
Condition - Specify the condition if the entity is a part that is a condition tracked
parent part. If the selected entity for the part is a condition tracked child part,
Condition is automatically populated.
5. Click Submit.

Associating clauses with customer contracts
Include clauses in customer contracts. For example, state that for each day the contract
finished ahead of schedule, he or she receives a bonus. Set up contract clauses prior to
associating them with customer contracts.
To associate clauses with customer contracts:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

886 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts.
2. Select the customer contract with which to associate clauses, and then click the
Clauses tab.
3. Click Add Clause.
You can only access the Clauses tab and add or delete a clause if the
customer contract has a status of Unfinished.
4. Specify this information:
Contract Clause - Specify a predefined ISO clause or a user-defined clause. You can
associate multiple clauses with a customer contract. The system automatically
populates the description in the adjacent field, and Organization.
Sequence - Specify a valid number to indicate the order of the contract clause in
relation to other associated clauses, if applicable.
5. Click Submit.

Defining charges for customer contracts
Define charge definitions for a customer contract to determine what the system invoices on
the contract and how the system generates the invoice. Charge definitions are invoiced per
contract item (e.g., a piece of equipment, project, or work order).
Defining charge definitions involves specifying adjustments for invoicing transactions for
several charge categories, subcategories, and levels which all help to determine when and
how costs are invoiced to customers during the invoice generations process.
See the following table for details on charge definitions categories and subcategories
available for selection:

Charge Category

WO Charges

Description

select to associate
charge definition
records with invoices

Charge Subcategory

• Labor
• Hired Labor

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

887 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

for work order costs

• Services
• Stock Items
• Direct Purchase
• Tool Costs
• All Cost Types

Sales Transactions

select to associate
charge definition
records with invoices
for work order related
costs against a fixed
sales price

• Service Problem Codes
• PM Schedules
• Standard WO
• Tasks
• Parts
• All Sales Entities

Fuel Charges

select to associate
charge definition
records with invoices
for fuel issues from
the fuel management

• Diesel
• All Fuels

system

Energy Charges

Usage Charges

select to associate
charge definition
records with invoices
for energy usage like
electricity or gas

• Commodity

select to associate
charge definition
records with invoices

• Period

• All Energy Commodities

• Hourly

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

888 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

for usage per period
(e.g., monthly rent) or
per usage (e.g.,
miles driven)

• Daily
• Weekly
• Monthly
• Quarterly
• Yearly Usage
• miles

One Time Charges

select to associate
charge definition
records with invoices
for one-time costs
like contract initiation
fees, attorney fees,
fuel (rental contract)
etc.

Subcategories here
are at contract start
and contract end.

To define charges for customer contracts:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts.
2. Select the contract for which to define charges, and then click the Charge Definitions
tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Contract Item - Specify the contract item for which to define charges. Contract items
consist of equipment, projects, or work orders. The system automatically populates the
contract item description, and applicable Work Order, Project, or Equipment, and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

889 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Contract Item Org.
Leave Contract Item unpopulated to define these charges for all contract items
on the header level of the customer contract.
Invoicing Org. - Specify the invoicing organization on the customer contract header.
The system automatically populates Source Code with details of where the record
originated.
Invoicing Description - Specify a description of the invoice transaction for the charge
defined here. This description is listed on the invoice when it is generated.
Invoice - Select to include this line of charges defined on the invoice.
Use Invoice to make exceptions, e.g., invoice all work order charges but not
tool costs.
Invoice Conditional - Specific to charge levels, charge category adjustments and
subcategory adjustments. Select to invoice this line if the lower charge level costs add
up to more than zero.
Charge Category - Select the category of the charges defined above in the table for the
customer contract to determine the type of charges that will be invoiced.
Charge Level - Select the level of invoicing for the charges defined here for the
customer contract. Select one of the charge levels to invoice as follows:
• Transaction Adjustment - Select to invoice the customer for the charges defined
here on the transaction level, e.g., stocking items or issuing fuel.
• Subcategory Adjustment - Select to invoice the customer for the charges
defined here on a group level, e.g., select Subcategory Adjustment to add a $50
administration fee when materials are issued from the warehouse, or select
Subcategory Adjustment to add a 2% tax on all fuel issues.
• Charge Category Adjustment - Select to invoice the customer for the charges
defined here on the charge category level, e.g., select Charge Category
Adjustment to specify that the first $250 of work order costs is included in the
rental fee of the space and is therefore free of charge.
Charge Subcategory - Select the subcategory level of invoicing for the charges

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

890 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

defined here for the customer contract. This selection depends on the selection
you made for Charge Category.
Rate - Specify the price to use on the invoice for Energy Charges, Usage
Charges, and One Time Charges.
Adjustment % Before - Specify the percentage by which to adjust the transaction
amount prior to price or transaction adjustments are applied.
Adjustment Unit Price - Specify the adjustment that should be applied to the
transaction price.
Adjustment Transaction - Specify the adjustment that should be applied to the
transaction.
Adjustment % After - Specify the percentage by which to adjust the transaction
amount after the Adjustment % Before, price, or transaction adjustments are
applied.
Minimum Quantity - Specify the minimum quantity to invoice.
The system compares the transaction quantity with Minimum Quantity
and if the transaction quantity is less, the system invoices the minimum quantity.
Minimum Charge - Specify the minimum charge value to invoice.
Maximum Charge - Specify the maximum charge value to invoice.
Free Up To - Specify a monetary amount to designate the amount by which the
invoice will be reduced, or the amount that is free of cost. E.g., the first $100 of
work order charges are free.
Taxable - Select to indicate this transaction line is taxable on the invoice.
Tax Code - Specify the tax rate to be applied to the cost of the contract item.
Usage UOM - Specify the unit of measure, e.g., miles, kilometers, to which the
usage-based rate will be applied.
Charge Estimated Usage - Select to add estimates for the usage and energy
consumption of the equipment or charge definitions to the periodic invoices.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

891 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system invoices the customer for actual usage entered via meter readings but
when meter readings are not up to date, the system also invoices the estimated
usage entered below in Estimated Daily Usage.
Rollover - Select to roll over the difference between the actual usage and
Minimum Quantity invoiced when actual usage is less than Minimum Quantity.
The difference is used in future invoices to compensate for over usage.
E.g., A customer has a Minimum Quantity of 2000 miles per month. The
customer is charged for 2000 miles each month, but perhaps one month the
customer uses only 1800 miles. The customer would lose 200 miles because the
system uses the Minimum Quantity when generating the customer's invoice.
Rollover allows the system to roll over the 200 miles into a buffer that can be
used in the next invoicing periods if the customer uses more than the 2000 miles
in a month.
Starting Meter Value - Specify the value of the meter at the beginning of the
contract. This is the starting value of the meter for the first invoice.
Estimated Daily Usage - Specify the estimated daily usage to charge to the
invoice if Charge Estimated Usage was previously selected. The system invoices
the customer for estimated daily usage or energy consumption during the invoice
generation process when actual usage via meter readings is not known or
incomplete.
Trade - Specify the trade of the charge definition. This is only relevant for work
order charges and if you want to make exceptions for certain trades.
Occupation Type - Specify the Occupation Type of the charge definition. This is
only relevant for work order charges and if you want to make exceptions for
certain occupation types.
Part Class - Specify the part class of the charge definition. This is only relevant for
work order charges and if you want to make exceptions for certain part classes.
Submetered - Select if the equipment or contract item has its own meter (water
meter, gas meter, or electric meter) from which to measure energy consumption.
Use Floor Area - Select if the equipment or contract item does not have it own
meter and you would like to measure and track energy consumption based on the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

892 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

building utility bill, i.e. Utility Bill Source.
If you select to use the floor area in the calculations, the system
calculates the invoicing percentage based on the floor area of the contract item
and that of the utility bill source, e.g., typically the building in which the contract
item resides.
Invoicing Percentage - Specify the percentage of the utility bill or actual
submetered consumption to invoice.
Utility Bill Source - Specify the utility bill source, usually a piece of equipment, to
associate with the contract item. The system automatically populates the utility bill
source description and Utility Bill Source Org.
The utility bill source determines the consumption of energy and the rate,
if Rate was left blank for this charge definition record.
5. Click Submit.

• Click Reset Tax Codes to reset tax codes based on the selected values for the
associated contract items.
• Click Associate Missing Meters for all contract items where a usage-based
charge definition references a meter UOM that does not exist on the equipment,
the system add this meter to the equipment.
• Click Update Energy Preferences to save the energy settings of all commodities
and all equipment referenced on the contract.

Associating adjustments with customer contracts
Associate adjustments to customer contracts when an adjustment to the invoice is necessary
after the setup of the initial contract charge definitions. Adjustments may be necessary after a
customer complaint, equipment was damaged prior to return, or extra charges are needed.
To associate adjustments with customer contracts:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

893 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the customer contract to which to associate adjustments, and then click the
Adjustments tab.
3. Click Add Adjustment.
4. Specify this information:
Contract Item - Specify a contract item to which to associate the adjustment. The
system automatically populates the contract item description, Contract Item Org.,
Invoice Amount, and Invoice Tax Amount. The system also automatically populates
Equipment, Project, or Work Order depending on which is associated to the selected
contract item.
If Contract Item is populated, the system invoices the , adjustment as part of
the contract item costs. If left unpopulated, the system invoices the adjustment on the
customer contract header level.
Adjustment - Specify the adjustment which to associate with the customer contract or
the contract item. Adjustments are defined on the Adjustments form. The system
automatically populates Adjustment Org.
Quantity - Specify the number of adjustments to apply to the invoice.
Tax Code - Specify the tax code to specify for the adjustment, the system calculates the
tax amount on the invoice.
Adjustment Type - Select to categorize the adjustment.
Invoice Discount or Contract Discount are system types and cannot be
manually selected.
Date - Select the date to invoice the adjustment.
Status - Select the status of the adjustment.
The system selects only Approved adjustments during the invoicing process.
Once invoiced the system changes the status to Invoiced and adds the invoice number
on the adjustment record for future reference.
Comments - Enter any comments applicable to the adjustment.
Rate - Specify the rate for the adjustment. The system automatically populates Total

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

894 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Amount.
Total Amount=Quantity * Rate
It is not necessary to enter any values. If Rate is blank the Total Amount is
automatically set to 0 (zero). If Quantity is blank the Total Amount is automatically set
equal to the entered Rate.
Exchange Rate - Specify the exchange rate the system will use for the adjustment
when a foreign currency is specified on the invoice of the customer.
The system will try and find the exchange rate for you. If the adjustment date is
in the past it will try and find the exchange rate for that day. If it is in the future it will use
today's date. If a contract item is selected and Use Fixed Exchange Rate is selected
for the contract item the system will default the exchange rate from the contract item.
5. Click Submit.
To create a work order for the selected adjustment, click Create WO. Select the WO
Organization, and then click Submit.

Copying customer contracts
Copy the header details and child records of customer contracts to quickly create a new
customer contract.
To copy customer contracts.
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts.
2. Select the customer contract to copy, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Right-click on the form, and then select Copy Contract.
4. Specify this information:
New Contract Code - Enter a unique code identifying the new customer contract, and
then enter a description of the contract in the adjacent field.
5. Select the related details to copy to the new customer contract:
• Custom Field Values

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

895 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Clauses
• WO Criteria
• Sales Prices
• Discounts
• Contract Items
• Charge Definitions
• Commodities
• Comments
• Documents
6. Click Submit.

Defining reservations
Define a reservation for a customer to record the rental of equipment for short periods of time,
and the charges based on usage fees for a period of time (hours, days, and weeks) and/or for
the usage measured in a specific unit of measures ( miles, kilometers, and engine hours). The
reservation can also include fixed charges such as fuel charge or a repair charge to handle
any damage that occurs during the reservation period.
To define reservations:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Reservations.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which the reservation is created, if you use
multi-organization security.
Reservation - Specify a unique code identifying the reservation, and then a description
in the adjacent field. A reservation number is assigned after you save the record.
Status - Select a status for the reservation. Select one of the following statuses:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

896 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Status

Description

Unfinished

The reservation is editable and has not been approved.
When status is Unfinished, all the fields are
editable except the following:
Customer Rental
Organization
Created By
Date Created
Completed

Issued

Status must be changed to Issued when the
reservation equipment is issued to the customer.

Returned

Status must be changed from Issued to Returned
when the customer returns the reservation equipment.

Competed

Status must be changed from Returned to Completed
when the reservation is completed.
System automatically updates the status from
Completed to Finished based on the rental Completed
date and CCFIDAYS install parameter defined on
Options tab of Organization.

Cancelled

Select if the contract no longer impacts reservations.

Reservation Type - Specify the rental type for the reservation.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

897 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If the user selects Loaner option, Received Equipment is enabled. If the user
selects Pool, Received Equipment is protected.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which the reservation is applicable.
Received Equipment - Specify details of the equipment received.
The equipment selected for the Rental Type is the equipment being loaned
while the received equipment is under repair. This field is enabled only when the Rental
Type is set to Loaner.
Rental Template - Specify the template to apply to the customer reservation.
Class - Specify the class of the reservation.
Issue To - Specify customer receiving the equipment for the reservation.
Customer - Specify the unique code identifying the customer.
Customer Contact - Specify the customer contact name.
Specify the customer Work Phone Number and Email Address.
Email Invoice - Select to e-mail the customer reservation invoice to the customer.
Specify the Driver's License No., Cost Code, and Tax Code.
Specify Issue Date/Time, Issue Location, Issue Reading, and Issue Fuel Level
details of the rental equipment.
Specify Return Date/Time, Return Location, Return Reading, and Return Fuel Level
details of the rental equipment.
Specify Corrected Hours, Corrected Days, Corrected Usage, and Corrected Fuel
Usage, if the calculated values must be overwritten.
The system populates the values for the invoicing details such as Calculated
Hours, Calculated Fuel Usage, Net Amount, Tax Amount, and Gross Amount.
4. Click Save Record. The Reservation number is generated.
To generate an invoice, right-click on the screen, and then select Generate
Invoice.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

898 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Associating adjustments with reservations
Associate adjustments with reservations. An adjustment can be an extra charge or a discount
such as extra charges for a damaged vehicle or a late return fee on the equipment.
Create a work order for an adjustment on this screen.
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Reservations.
2. Select the reservation for which to create an adjustment, and then click the
Adjustments tab.
3. Click Add Adjustment.
4. Specify this information:
Adjustment - Specify the adjustment with which to associate to the reservation.
Tax Code - Specify the tax code for the adjustment.
Date - Specify the date to invoice the adjustment.
Quantity - Specify the quantity of adjustments to invoice.
Adjustment Type - Select the type of adjustment, e.g., enter an extra charge for
damage if the equipment was returned damaged or a discount because it was returned
early. You cannot select Invoice Discount or select Contract Discount because they
are reserved by the system.
Status - Select the status of the adjustment. Select one of the following statuses:
• Unfinished - Adjustments can be changed.
• Approved - Adjustment is ready for invoicing.
• Invoiced - Adjustment is invoiced.
• Cancelled - Adjustment is canceled.
Rate - Specify the rate for the adjustment. Total Amount and Tax Amount are
automatically populated. Tax Amount is applied to the invoice when the
adjustment is due, based on the adjustment date selected.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

899 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.
Invoice and Invoice Org. are automatically assigned when the invoice process is
completed. Created Work Order is automatically populated when a work order is
created for the adjustment.
To create a work order for the adjustment, click Create WO. See Creating
regular work orders.

Viewing charge definitions for reservations
View charge definitions for the reserved equipment.
To view charge definitions for reservations:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Reservations.
2. Enter the customer rental for which to view charges, and then click the Charge
Definitions tab.
3. View the charge definitions details.

Creating reservation requests
Create, update, and approve reservation requests.
To create reservation requests:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Reservation Requests.
2. Click New Record.
3. Enter a description of the reservation request.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify your organization.
Vehicle - Select the vehicle you are renting.
Vehicle Type - Select the type of vehicle you are renting.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

900 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Class - Specify the class of the reservation request.
Status - Specify the current status of the reservation request.
Start Date/Time - Specify the date and time you intend to rent the vehicle.
End Date/Time - Specify the date and time you intend to return the vehicle.
5. Specify these reservation request details:
Reference - Specify a number or unique code to identify the reservation request.
Issue To - Specify the employee name of the person to which the vehicle will be issued.
Customer - Specify the customer name associated with the employee to which you are
issuing the vehicle.
Phone Number - Specify your phone number if you are renting the vehicle, or the
phone number of the employee renting the vehicle if you are approving the request.
Work Phone No. - Specify your work phone number if you are renting the vehicle, or
the work phone number of the employee renting the vehicle if you are approving the
request.
Email Address - Specify your email address if you are renting the vehicle, or the email
address of the employee renting the vehicle if you are approving the request.
Driver's License No. - Specify your driver's license number if you are renting the
vehicle, or the driver's license number of the employee renting the vehicle if you are
approving the request.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the employee to track any vehicle maintenance
costs.
6. Click Save Record.

Reviewing reservation requests
View a list of reservation requests ready for approval and then either accept or reject the
reservation request.
Only the reservation requests for which you are authorized to review are displayed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

901 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To review reservation requests:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Review Reservation Requests.
2. Select the reservation request(s) to review.
3. Choose one of the following options:
• Accept - Click the Accept button to accept the reservation request(s). The
selected record is deleted from the list once it is accepted and the status of the
record is updated.
• Reject - Click the Reject button to reject the reservation requests, specify a
reason for the rejection in the popup, and then click OK. Optionally, select the Use
Reason for All check box in the popup to use the same rejection reason for all of
the selected reservation requests if you selected more than one record.
4. Double-click on a record in the grid to hyperlink to the record on the Reservations
screen.

Viewing customer invoices
View and modify customer invoices on this screen. The Customer Invoices page displays
details of the invoices created for customer contracts and customer rentals.
Customer invoices can only be generated by the system. You cannot manually insert
or delete invoices on this screen, but you can modify customer invoices.
To view and modify customer invoices:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Invoices.
2. Select the customer invoice for which to modify or view, and then click the Record View
tab.
3. Specify this information:
Description - Specify the description of the invoice.
Status - Select the status of the invoice. To approve the invoice, select Approved.
4. Click Save. The system automatically populates Approval Date.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

902 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Viewing contract items for customer invoices
View details of the equipment, projects, or work orders linked to the customer invoice. View
contract items details such as the invoicing organization, applicable exchange rate, and
customer data.
To view the contract items:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Invoices.
2. Select the invoice for which to view contract items, and then click the Contract Items
tab.
3. Specify this information:
Adjusted Net - If required, modify the net amount. The adjusted net amount is
displayed on the Invoice header.

Viewing and modifying customer invoice details
View details of a customer invoice by charge categories, charge subcategories and charge
levels.
To view and modify customer invoices:
1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Invoices.
2. Select the customer invoice for which to view or modify details, and then click the
Invoice Details tab.
3. View details of the customer invoice.
Only Adjusted Quantity, Adjusted Periods, Adjusted Price and Adjusted
Rollup can be modified. The adjustments are displayed on the Contract Items tab and
the Invoice header.

Viewing invoice generation errors
View the error details generated during the customer invoicing process.
To view invoice generation errors:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

903 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Contract Management > Customer Invoices.
2. Select the customer invoice for which to view generation errors, and then click the
Generation Errors tab.
3. View the errors.

Updating work order activities via the contractor portal
Contractors use this screen to browse assigned work order activities and update the activities,
work order comments, and documents as necessary. View task plan instructions and
documents.
To update work order activities via the contractor portal:
1. Select Work > Contractor Portal.
2. Select an open work order, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Update the details of the work order.
4. Click Save Record.

Managing permits to work
Create and promote a safe work environment for your employees by defining permits to work.
The permit to work details the hazards and precautions required to remove or prevent a
potential hazard to your employee's safety.
An efficient permit to work includes:
• Details of potential hazards
• Details of the precautions to take to prevent potential hazards
• Any required lockout/tagout operations

Defining permit to work setup
Define permit to work setup options to format the maximum initial duration, maximum number
of extensions, and the maximum extension duration of a permit to work.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

904 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To define permit to work setup:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work Setup.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the permit to work. The system automatically
populates the description of the organization.
Risk - Select the color indicating the potential risk the work poses to your operation,
e.g., select Red if the hazard poses a significant risk to your operation.
The selection of colors is contingent upon your organization's preferences or
the value your organization assigns for each color. The system does not assign value to
the colors available.
Maximum Initial Duration (Hrs.) - Specify the maximum number in hours to indicate
the initial duration period expected for the permit to work.
Maximum Extensions - Specify the maximum number of extensions to allow for the
permit to work in the event the work to be performed is not completed by the Maximum
Initial Duration (Hrs.).
Maximum Extension Duration (Hrs.) - Specify the maximum number of hours to allow
per extension for the duration of the permit to work in the event the work to be
performed is not completed by the Maximum Initial Duration (Hrs.).
Maximum Total Duration (Hrs.) - Specify the maximum number in hours to indicate the
total duration allowed for the permit to work.
3. Click Save Record.

Defining hazards
A hazard is a situation that poses a level of threat to life, health, property, or the employee's
environment such as working with fire and flammable equipment, lifting heavy objects,
handling sharp objects, working near roadsides, working at heights, or working in confined
spaces. Define these situations as hazards to notify your employees of potential dangers in
the workplace as they perform maintenance.
After defining hazards, define precautionary measures for each hazard on the Precautions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

905 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

form.
To update or revise hazard records once created, right-click on a hazard record, and then
select Create New Revision.
To define hazards:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Hazards.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the hazard.
Hazard - Specify a unique code identifying the hazard, and then enter a description in
the adjacent field. Alternately, you may opt to allow the system to automatically generate
Hazard.
Specify the Status and Class of the hazard. The system automatically populates Class
Org.
Hazard Type - Select the type to classify the hazard. For example, select Biological
Hazards, Chemical Hazards, Physical Hazards, or Radiological Hazards.
Date Review Required - Specify the date by which to review the hazard.
3. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to indicate that the hazard should not
display in lookups on the Safety pages.
4. Click Save Record. The system automatically populates Created By and Date
Created.
After updates to the hazard record are saved, the system automatically
populates Updated By, Date Updated, and Revision.

Associating precautions with hazards
Associate precautions with hazards to prevent hazardous situations in the workplace that can
potentially cause bodily harm or injury to your employees. For example, workers completing a
job on the roof of a building are at risk of falling off the roof. Wearing a safety harness is a
precaution the workers can take to protect them from a potential fall off the roof.
To associate precautions with hazards:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

906 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Hazards.
2. Select the hazard for which to associate precautions, and then click the Precautions
tab.
3. Click Add Precaution.
4. Specify this information:
Precaution - Specify the safety measure to protect the workers from the hazard. The
system automatically populates the precaution description and the Precaution Org.
Sequence - Specify the sequence in the workflow process at which the precaution
should be taken to prevent the hazard if more than one precaution is in effect and you
want to prioritize.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing hazard usage
The Where Used page of the Hazards form lists the screens on which hazards are being
used throughout the system. Hazards can be attached to PM schedules, work orders, parts,
equipment, categories, permits to work, and standard work orders on the Safety tab.
To view hazard usage:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Hazards.
2. Select the hazard for which to view usage, and then click the Where Used tab.
3. View the hazard usage information.

Defining precautions
Define precautions to safeguard workers from potential hazards in the workplace such as
working with fire and flammable equipment, lifting heavy objects, handling sharp objects,
working near roadsides, or working at heights.
Define precautions to safeguard workers from potential hazards in the workplace such as
working with fire and flammable equipment, lifting heavy objects, handling sharp objects,
working near roadsides, or working at heights.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

907 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Precautions for these potential hazards include wearing harnesses or using scaffolds to
prevent falls, wearing gloves for handling sharp objects, or working during low traffic volume
times when working on or near roadsides.
After creating precautions, associate the precautions with hazards on the Precautions tab of
the Hazards form or immediately associate hazards and precautions on the Safety tabs.
To update or revise precaution records once created, right-click and then select Create New
Revision.
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Precautions.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Enter the organization of the precaution.
Precaution - Enter a unique code identifying the precaution, and then enter a
description in the adjacent field. Alternately, you may opt to allow the system to
automatically generate Precaution.
Enter the Status and Class of the precaution. The system automatically populates
Class Org.
Timing - Select the best time to observe the precaution to prevent the hazard. For
example, select Pre Work if workers should observe the precaution prior to performing
work.
Date Review Required - Enter the date on which the precaution should be reviewed.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to indicate the precaution should not
display in the Precautions lookup on the Safety page.
5. Optionally, in the Responsibility field, specify the employee responsible for performing
the precaution. The responsibility value will be copied from the precaution directly to the
Safety tab of the permit to work and work order.
6. Click Save Record. The system automatically populates Created By and Date
Created.
After updates to the precaution record are saved, the system automatically

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

908 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

populates Updated By and Dated Updated.

Defining isolation points for equipment
Define isolation points for equipment to later isolate the equipment from its energy sources
during a lockout/tagout procedure as part of a permit to work process. Isolating equipment
from its energy sources helps to prevent further injury that may occur if the equipment or
machinery is unexpectedly energized or starts up while maintenance or service work is being
performed on the equipment by employees.
For example, if crews are performing maintenance on a machine, lockout/tagout safety
procedures are observed which may involve isolating the machine from its power source by
shutting off the power and placing a lock on the circuit breakers.
By defining isolation points, you indicate at which areas the equipment can be isolated from
its energy sources to prevent injury from unexpected startup.
To define isolation points for equipment:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Isolation Points.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the isolation points.
Isolation Point - Specify a unique code identifying the isolation point, and then enter a
description in the adjacent field.
If you leave Isolation Point blank, the system generates a code for you.
Equipment - Specify the equipment if the isolation point is equipment that you already
maintain, e.g., a valve. The system automatically populates the description and
Equipment Org.
Class - Specify the class of the isolation point, e.g. VALVE, SWITCH. The system
automatically populates Class Org.
Status - Specify the status of the isolation point. The system automatically populates
Unfinished.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

909 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Location - Specify the location of the isolation point. The system automatically
populates Location Org.
Location Note - Specify any additional notes on the location of the isolation as
necessary.
Energy Source - Select the equipment's source of energy, e.g., electrical power.
Residual Energy - Select the secondary source of residual energy to the equipment if
any.
Secondary Residual Energy - Select the secondary source of residual energy to the
equipment.
Date Review Required - Specify the date review of the isolation point is required.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to indicate the isolation point should not
display in the isolation point lookups on the LOTO tab of the Assets, Positions,
Locations, and Permit to Work form.
5. Click Save Record. The system automatically populates Created By and Date
Created.

Viewing permits to work for isolation points
This screen displays the permit to work data attached to specific isolation points.
To view permits to work for isolation points:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Isolation Points.
2. Select the isolation point for which to view permits to work, and then click the Permit to
Work tab.
3. View the information.

Defining lockout boxes for lockout/tagout procedures
Define lockout boxes for employees to safely store all the keys used for a lockout/tagout
procedure. Lockout/tagout procedures are observed during the maintenance required for a
permit to work.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

910 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Tagging and locking out (e.g., securing that mechanical equipment is disconnected from to
electricity) while employees are performing required maintenance and work orders, prevents
bodily injury and death by employees who might otherwise start equipment while
maintenance is being performed.
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Lockout Boxes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the lockout box.
Lockout Box - Specify a unique code identifying the lockout box, and then enter a
description in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the lockout box for the permit.
Location Note - Enter a note detailing where the lockout box is located.
In Use - Select if the lockout box is currently in use.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box if the lockout box is currently out of
service or not being used.
5. Click Save Record.
Current PTW and In Use are automatically populated if the lockout box is used
on a permit to work that is currently isolated.

Defining permits to work
To define permits to work:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work.
2. Specify the Organization.
3. Enter a description of the permit to work.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment associated with the permit to work. The system

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

911 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

automatically populates the description of the equipment and Equipment Org.
PTW Type - Select the type of work to be performed on the permit, e.g., Confined
space entry if the work to be performed must be completed in an enclosed space.
Department - Specify the department of the equipment.
Status - Specify the status of the permit to work.
Location - Specify the location of the equipment.
Location Note - Enter a note on the location of the equipment.
Class - Specify the class for the permit to work.
Type of Work - Select the type of work to be performed on the permit to work.
Priority - Select the priority of the work to be performed on the permit to work.
Risk - Select the risk the permit to work poses to your organization.
Lockout Box - Specify the lockout box that will be used if a lockout is required.
Requested By - Specify the person who requested the permit to work.
Date Requested - Specify the date the permit to work was requested.
Assigned To - Specify an employee to perform the work indicated.
Date Required - Specify the date the permit to work will go in effect.
Duration (Hrs.) - Specify the duration in hours required for the permit to work.
Extension (Hrs.) - Specify the number of hours to extend the permit to work if
maximum duration hours are exceeded. Duration Total is automatically populated.
Valid Until and Extension Count are automatically populated when the permit to work
Status is Active.
Suspension Reason - Specify the reason to suspend the permit to work.
5. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

912 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To extend the amount of time that the permit to work is valid, click Extend. Enter
your electronic signature information, and a new Extension Count, Duration
Total, and Valid Until will be determined.
• To sign off on the permit to work, click Sign-Off.
• To sign off on the permit to work as a contractor, click Contractor Sign Off.
• To make a copy of an existing permit to work or to replace a permit to work if it can
no longer be used, click Copy/Replace. See Copying and replacing permits to
work.
• To view all differences between the current data of the permit to work and the
archived data from the last electronic signature, click Unsigned PTW
Differences. View the differences.

Adding safety hazards and precautions to permits to work
Add hazards to permits to work to alert your employees to all the dangers (bodily harm,
environmental issues like spills) they face when performing required maintenance and
working with equipment. Attach precautions to these hazards so they can safeguard
themselves and their surroundings from these potential dangers. For example, if you must
maintain electrical equipment, electrocution is a hazard. Add a precaution to turn that
equipment off and remove it from the power outlet before performing repairs on that electrical
equipment.
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work.
2. Select the permit to work for which to add safety precautions and hazards, and then
click the Safety tab.
3. Click Add Safety Record.
4. Specify this information:
Hazard - Specify the hazard to add to the permit to work.
Precaution - Specify the safety measure to protect your employees from the hazard.
Add one or more precautions to a hazard as needed.
Precaution Applied - Select this check box to indicate the specified safety measure for

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

913 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the hazard was applied.
Timing - Select the timing which is used to identify when the precaution should be
taken. For example, if your employee is working with fire, you can enter the timing of
"during" to alert the employee that they should wear fire-resistant clothing during the
task.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number which is used to identify the order in which
your employee should be made aware of the precaution. All precautions are important
regardless of the sequence number entered.
Health Hazard - Specify the code based on the Hazardous Materials Code (400) of the
NFPA that indicates the degree to which the materials used poses a hazard to the
health of the employee.
Flammability - Specify the code based on the Hazardous Materials Code (400) of the
NFPA that indicates the degree to which the materials used are flammable.
Instability - Specify the code based on the Hazardous Materials Code (400) of the
NFPA that indicates the degree to which the materials used can detonate or explode.
Special Hazards - Specify the code based on the Hazardous Materials Code (400) of
the NFPA that indicates any special hazards related to the materials used.
5. Click Submit.

Implementing lockout/tagout procedures for permits to work
Define the steps that must be taken on the permit to work to isolate equipment from its energy
sources to prevent startup of a piece of equipment or machine once maintenance on that
equipment is in progress. This is to prevent dangers to the workers.
To implement lockout/tagout procedures for permits to work:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work.
2. Select the permit to work for which to implement lockout/tagout procedures, and then
click the LOTO tab.
3. Click Add LOTO Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

914 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Sequence - Specify the sequence in which to implement lockout/tagout procedures.
Isolation Point - Specify the point at which to isolate the equipment from its energy
source. The system automatically populates the description, Isolation Point Org.,
Isolation Point Revision, Equipment and Equipment Org.
Isolation Method - Specify the method by which to isolate the equipment from its
energy source. The system automatically populates Method Revision, Location, and
Location Org.
Location Note - Specify any additional notes on the location of the equipment as
necessary.
Number of Tags - Specify the number of tags required to properly lock and tag the
equipment so that startup of the equipment is prevented.
Energy Source - Select the equipment's source of energy, e.g., electrical power.
Residual Energy - Select the secondary source of residual energy to the equipment if
any.
Secondary Residual Energy - Select the secondary source that stores residual energy
for the equipment. This source supplies energy to the equipment when the equipment is
disconnected from its primary energy and secondary energy sources.
Isolation Step - Select to indicate this procedure is an isolation step and not a deisolation step.
Note - Specify any notes regarding the lockout/tagout step for this permit to work.
Key References - Specify any references to keys used during the lockout.
5. Specify this Permit to Work Tags information to define your unique tags:
Tag Header - Specify a unique name for the tag.
Tag Line 1 - Specify a unique tag for line 1.
Tag Line 2 - Specify a unique tag for line 2.
Tag Line 3 - Specify a unique tag for line 3.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

915 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Tag Line 4 - Specify a unique tag for line 4.
6. Click Submit.

Signing permits to work
Permits to work must be signed by a user to indicate they accept and understand the hazards
and precautions, as defined on the permit to work. Users who do not have a user ID, usually
contractors, can sign their name, enter a date and time, and add additional remarks using the
Contractor Sign Off button.
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work.
2. Select the permit to work to sign, and then click the Contractor Sign Off button to
display the Contractor Sign Off window.
3. Specify this information:
Name - Specify the name of the contractor signing the permit to work.
Date - Specify the date and time.
4. Optionally, specify this information:
Signature Type - Specify the type of the signature entered.
Remark - Enter any remarks about the permit to work.
Company - Specify the company where the contractor is employed.
Responsibility - Specify the responsibility of the contractor.
5. Click Submit.
Optionally, click Submit and Add Another to submit the signature and add another.
Optionally, click Reset to clear all fields.
Optionally, click Cancel to close the window.

Viewing and entering checklist items for permits to work

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

916 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View a checklist for a permit to work LOTO sequence to verify the progress or completion of
the checklist. Alternately you may enter results for a checklist of a permit to work LOTO
sequence. To enter results for checklist items associated to the permit to work, the permit to
work must not have a status equal to Closed or Cancelled.
To view and enter checklist items for permits to work:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work.
2. Select the permit to work for which to enter checklist items, and then click the Checklist
tab.
3. Specify this information:
LOTO Sequence - Select the sequence of the step of the lockout/tagout procedure
during which to enter the checklist answers. The system automatically populates the
isolation method description.
4. Enter results of the checklist based on the checklist item.
• Select Completed if Type is Checklist Item.
Select Yes or No if Type is Question.
Enter Finding if Type is Qualitative.
Enter Value and UOM if Type is Quantitative.
Notes - Enter any relevant notes for the checklist item results.
Final Occ. - Select if the results entered represent the final occurrence of the
specific checklist item. This applies only to repeating checklist items, e.g., a gas
measurement you must perform more than once.
5. Click Submit.

Resolving conflicts with permits to work
Conflicts with permits to work can occur when multiple permits to work are attached to the
same equipment or have the same isolation points or location. Identify potential conflicts and
choose the method by which to resolve the conflicts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

917 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To resolve conflicts with permits to work:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work.
2. Select the permit to work for which to resolve conflicts, and then click the Conflicts tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information
Conflicting PTW - Specify the permit to work with the conflict. The system
automatically populates the description, Organization, Status, PTW Type, Risk,
Equipment, Equipment Org., equipment description, Location, Location Org.,
Responsible, Holder, Un-Assessed Conflicts, Date Required, Valid Until, Created
By, Date Created, Updated By, and Date Updated.
Resolution - Select the method for resolving the conflict with the conflicting permit to
work.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing event logs for permits to work
View status changes, extensions, isolation, de-isolation and sign-off events that occurred
during the life cycle of the permit to work. Alternately you may manually add events or
remarks.
To view event logs for permits to work:
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work.
2. Select the permit to work for which to view event logs, and then click the Event Log tab.
3. Specify this information:
Event Type - Select the events type to view for the permit to work. For example, select
Status Change to view the events in which the status for the permit to work was
changed. The system automatically populates User, and User Name.
To manually add an event to the log, click Add Event. Select the Event Type,
and then enter Date/Time the event occurred.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

918 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Date/Time - Specify the date and time the event occurred.
4. Enter notes as necessary.
5. Click Submit. The system automatically populates Created By and Date Created.
The system automatically populates Updated By and Date Updated if updates
were made the event log.

Copying and replacing permits to work
Replace an existing permit to work with a new permit to work, or copy an existing permit to
work to save planning time for a new permit to work.
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work.
2. Select the permit to work to copy or replace.
3. Right-click the form, and then select Copy/Replace PTW.
4. Specify this information:
Description - Specify a description of the new permit to work.
Equipment - Specify the equipment to associate to the new permit to work.
Location - Specify the location of the equipment associated to the new permit to work.
5. Select to copy these associated details to the new permit to work:
• Custom Field Values
• Comments
• Documents
• LOTO
• Safety
• Add Equipment Safety
• Add Location Safety

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

919 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Click Copy or Replace.
If the Replace button is selected, the Work Order, Work Order Activity, and
Replaces fields will be populated with information from the source permit to work. The
Replaced By and Status fields of the source permit to work will be updated with
information from the permit to work created in the Copy/Replace PTW pop-up window.

Viewing contractor signatures on permits to work
View contractor signatures associated to the permit to work to verify acknowledgment of the
hazards and precautions associated with the work.
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work.
2. Select the permit to work for which to view contractor signatures, and then click the
Contractor Signatures tab.
3. View the contractor signature information.
4. Click the View Digital Work Signature link to display the signature.

Associating hazards and precautions on the Safety Matrix screen
Identify and associate hazards and precautions that occur when certain maintenance
activities are performed on specified equipment. The hazards and precautions associated on
this screen depend on the combination of equipment or location, and the activity performed
on that equipment or location. For example, if welding is required to fix a leak in a tank that
contains a flammable liquid, that is an explosion or fire hazard. Other activities on that tank
that do not require an open flame may have other associated hazards that do not include risk
of an explosion or fire. This screen allows you to define all of these potential hazardous
situations.
Hazards and precautions can also be associated on the Safety tab of the Assets,
Positions, Systems, and activity screens like the Standard WO and PM Schedules screens.
Those hazards and precautions associated on the Safety tab of the screens always apply to
those records, regardless of the activity or where it is performed. For example, equipment that
is installed 50 feet in the air is always in danger of falling. This danger or hazard is there,
regardless of the activity you are performing.
1. Select Work > Permit to Work > Safety Matrix.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

920 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this Safety Details information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which this safety matrix belongs.
Hazard - Specify the hazard to associate with this safety matrix.
Precaution - Specify the safety measure to protect your employees from the hazard.
Timing - Select the timing to identify when the precaution should be taken. For
example, if your employee is working with fire, you can enter the timing of "during" to
alert the employee that they should wear fire-resistant clothing during the task.
Sequence - Specify the sequence number to identify the order in which your employee
should be made aware of the precaution. All precautions are important regardless of the
sequence number entered.
4. Specify this Activity Details information:
PM Schedule - Optionally, specify the PM schedule to associate with the hazard and
precaution for this equipment.
Standard WO - Optionally, specify the standard work order to associate with the hazard
and precaution for this equipment.
Task Plan - Optionally, specify the task plan to associate with the hazard and precaution
for this equipment.
Job Plan - Optionally, specify the job plan to associate with the hazard and precaution
for this equipment.
5. Specify this Equipment Details information:
6. Class - Optionally, specify the class of equipment.
7. Category - Optionally, specify the category of equipment.
8. Equipment - Specify the equipment, if you left Class and Category blank.
9. Optionally, select the Apply to Children check box to apply the safety details to all child
records. A safety record attached to a production line will now be applicable on all
equipment in that production line.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

921 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

10. Click Submit.

Viewing unreturned core parts
View and track core parts issued to a work order, equipment, project-budget or employee for
which a corresponding core was never returned to the store after failing. When core parts
remain outstanding, the value of the core part remains charged against the work order, or to
whatever it was issued. Once the core part is returned the core value is removed from the
work order.
The total value of cores which remain unreturned for a work order can be seen on
the Cost Summary page of the Work Orders form. To view unreturned core parts:
1. Select Work > Overview > Unreturned Cores.
2. View the unreturned core parts.

Creating healthcare work orders
Create new work orders for one or more pieces of healthcare equipment.
The form contains collapsible sections.
1. Select Work > Verticals > Healthcare > Work Orders Healthcare.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the work order belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Work Order - Specify a description of the work needed in the adjacent field. A work
order number is assigned after you save the record.
Equipment - Specify the healthcare equipment on which to perform the work.
Equipment-related fields are automatically populated based on the selected Equipment
if available.
Multiple Equipment is automatically selected if you add additional equipment to
the work order and it is protected.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

922 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Type - Choose the work order type based on the work needed:
• Breakdown - Select to create a work order in response to an equipment
breakdown or failure.
• Calibration - Select to create a calibration work order.
• PM - Select to create a preventive maintenance work order.
• Repairable Spare - Select to create a work order for repairable spare parts. If you
are creating a work order for repairable spare parts, you must also add the parts to
repair on the Repair Parts tab.
• Standard WO - Select to create a standard work order.
The previously listed work order types are standard types in the system.
You can also create user-defined work order types.
Status - Select one of the following options:
• Released - Select to create a work order.
• Work request - Select to create a work request.
If you select a Status of Work request, the work request must be
approved and assigned a status of Released before defining activities,
scheduling labor, booking labor, etc.
Priority - Specify the priority of the work order.
4. Specify this Equipment Details information:
Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the work order.
Warranty - Select if the equipment is under manufacturer warranty.
5. Specify this Work Order Details information:
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order if it has been stored in the system
library. The standard work order activities are also copied to the current work order. If
the standard work order is a template, child work orders are created as defined on the
standard work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

923 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Assigned By - Specify the supervisor who assigned the work order.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the work order.
Sched. Start Date / Sched. End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for the
work order.
Start Date - Specify the actual date on which the work order is started.
Date Completed - Specify the actual date on which the work order is completed.
Problem Code - Specify the code to identify the type of problem.
Cause Code - Specify the cause code identifying the cause of the problem. The
following fields are automatically populated:
Route identifies the inspection route of which the equipment is a part.
Inspection Status indicates the current status of the inspection route of which the
equipment is a part.
Failure Code - Specify the cause of failure for the equipment.
Action Code - Specify the action taken to resolve the problem.
Project - Budget - Specify the project and the project budget to associate with the work
order.
You cannot select a frozen project/budget.
Safety - Select if this work requires special safety precautions.
Parent Work Order - Specify the code identifying the parent work order for the work
order.
Downtime Cost - Specify the cost that resulted from the equipment being out of
operation due to failure.
Downtime Hours - Specify the number of hours that the equipment was out of
operation due to failure. The system automatically populates the following fields:
The system populates Last Meter Reading with the value of the last meter reading and
the unit of measure of the reading in the adjacent field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

924 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Trigger Event indicates the MS Project planning session associated with the equipment
on the work order.
Print - Select to print the work order when work orders are batch printed.
Once the work order is printed, Printed is automatically selected, and Print is
automatically unselected.
Dependent - Select to keep the work order open until all child work orders are
completed.
6. Specify this Requestor Details information:
Reported By - Specify the employee requesting the work.
Phone E-mail - Specify the phone number and e-mail address of the employee
requesting the work.
Req. Start Date / Req. End Date - Specify the requested starting and ending dates for
the work order.
Shift - Specify the shift during which the work is requested to be performed.
7. Specify this Activity information:
Activity - Specify a value if you want to create a new activity to associate with the work
order.
Trade - Specify the trade required to perform the activity.
If you enter a Trade, Estimated Hours, or People Required in the Activity
section of the page, an activity will automatically be created for this work order.
An activity record can be deleted when you remove the Trade value.
Task - Specify the task code for the activity.
Material List - Specify the material list code for the material list containing the parts
needed for the work order.
Activity Start Date / Activity End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for the
activity associated with the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

925 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Estimated Hours - Specify the estimated number of hours required to complete the
activity. Hours Remaining is automatically populated with the estimated number of
hours remaining for the activity. You may update this field at any time during the life
cycle of the work order.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to perform the activity.
8. Specify this Incident Tracking information:
Patient/Visitor Injury - Select if the work order involved a patient or visitor injury.
Staff Injury/Illness - Select if the work order involved a staff injury or illness.
Security Incident - Select if the work order involved a security incident.
Property Damage - Select if the work order involved damage to property.
Hazardous Materials Incident - Select if the work order involved a hazardous materials
incident.
Fire Safety Incident - Select if the work order involved an incident regarding fire safety.
Medical Equipment Incident - Select if the work order involved an incident with
medical equipment.
Utility System Incident - Select if the work order involved an incident with a utility
system.
9. Specify this Compliance Details information:
Above Ceiling Permit - Select if the work to be performed requires an above ceiling
permit.
Interim Life Safety - Select if the work to be performed requires interim life safety
procedures and techniques be put in place.
Interim Infection Control - Select if the work to be performed requires interim infection
control procedures be put in place.
Preconstruction Risk Assessment (PCRA) - Select if the work to be performed
relates to a pre-construction risk assessment plan.
Plan for Improvement (PFI) - Select if the work to be performed relates to a plan for

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

926 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

improvement.
Statement of Conditions - Select if the equipment on which the work to be performed
relates to the Statement of Conditions as required by The Joint Commission.
Building Maintenance Program (BMP) - Select if the work to be performed is on a
piece of equipment inventoried in the building maintenance program.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) - Select if the work to be performed requires
personal protective equipment.
Lockout/Tagout - Select if the work to be performed is on a piece of equipment which
must comply with OSHA regulations on lockout/tagout.
Hot Work/Burn Permit - Select if the work to be performed requires a hot work/burn
permit.
Confined Space - Select if the work to be performed is on a piece of equipment located
in an area defined as a confined space as per OSHA regulations.
Patient Safety - Select if the work to be performed interferes with patient safety and
requires patient safety measures.
Recall Notice - Select if the work to be performed requires a recall notice or is on a
piece of equipment with a recall notice.
SMDA - Select if the work to be performed is on a piece of equipment covered by the
Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990.
HIPAA Confidentiality - Select if the work to be performed is on a piece of equipment
containing confidential patient health information.
10. Click Save Record.

• To create a standard work order from any general work order for easy duplication,
right-click on any existing work order, and then click Create Standard WO.
Specify the New Standard WO, and then provide a description for the new
standard work order. Specify the Organization, and then click Submit.
• To view the progress of a work order, right-click on the form, and then choose

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

927 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Event Log.
• To create a warranty claim for the work order, right-click, and then select Create
Warranty Claim.

Creating incident requests
Create and update hospitality-based incident request records.
To create incident requests:
1. Select Work > Verticals > Hospitality > Incident Requests.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Find Guest By - Choose one of the following options to search for a guest:
• Room - Select to locate guests by their room assignment.
• Employee - Select to locate the hospitality employees by their employee codes.
• Employee Name - Select to locate the hospitality employees by their names.
• Last Name - Select to locate guests by their last names.
• First Name - Select to locate guests by their first names.
• Phone - Select to locate guests by their phone numbers.
4. Enter data in that contains, e.g., if you chose to search by Phone, enter the phone
number, and then click Search to begin the search process.

• If exactly one match is found by the room, the system populates Room, the room
description, and Room Property.
• If exactly one match is found by the guest's last name, first name, or phone
number, the system populates the information in the Guest Information section.
5. Enter the guest's first, middle, and last name.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

928 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Specify this information:
VIP Status - Select the guest's VIP status.
Employee - Specify the employee responsible for the incident request. The system
automatically populates the employee description.
Enter the guest's E-mail Address and Phone Number.
Room - Specify the room where the incident occurred. The system automatically
populates Room, the room description, and Room Property.
Problem Code - Specify the code identifying the incident problem. The system
automatically populates the service problem code description and Problem Code
Property.
Incident Details - Specify details of the incident as necessary.
Copy to WO Comments - Select to copy the work order comments to the incident
request.
Property - Specify the property of the request.
Status - Select the status for the request.
Source - Select the request source.
Type - Select the request type.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the property, this is typically the
property manager, housekeeping, or building maintenance personnel. The system
automatically populates Request Date and Request Taken By.
Work Order - Specify the work order for the incident request. The system automatically
populates Standard WO and Duplicate.
WO Priority - Select the work order priority.
WO Property - Specify the property at which to perform the incident work.
7. Click Save Record.
The system automatically populates Incident Request.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

929 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To create a work order based on the incident request, enter the room and problem
code for the incident, and then click Create WO.
• To email the guest, click Email Guest.
• To create another guest request based on the guest information and another
incident, click Create Another Guest Request.

Creating hospitality work orders
Create and update hospitality-based work orders.
1. Select Verticals > Hospitality > Work Orders Hospitality.
This screen is not included in the default menu. Contact your system
administrator for access if you cannot find this screen in the location specified.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Property - Specify the property to which the work order belongs.
Work Order - Specify a description of the work needed in the adjacent field. A work
order number is assigned after you save the record.
Equipment - Specify the hospitality equipment on which to perform the work.
Type - Choose one of the following options:
Breakdown - Select to create a work order in response to an equipment breakdown or
failure.
Calibration - Select to create a calibration work order.
PM - Select to create a preventive maintenance work order.
Repairable Spare - Select to create a work order for repairable spare parts. If you are
creating a work order for repairable spare parts, you must also add the parts to repair on
the Repair Parts tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

930 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Standard WO - Select to create a standard work order.
The previously listed work order types are standard types in the system. You
can also create user-defined work order types.
Status - Select one of the following options:
Released - Select to create a work order.
Work request - Select to create a work request.
If you select a Status of Work request, the work request must be approved
and assigned a status of Released before defining activities, scheduling labor, booking
labor, etc.
Facility - Specify the facility at which the work is to be performed.
4. Specify this WO Details information:
Priority - Specify the priority of the work order.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order if it has been stored in the system
library.
Route - Specify the inspection route of which the equipment is a part.
Action Code - Specify the action taken to resolve the problem.
5. Specify this Scheduling information:
Date/Time Reported - Specify the date and time the work to be performed was
reported.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the work order.
Sched. Start Date / Sched. End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for the
work order.
Sched. Start Time / Sched. End Time - Specify the starting and ending times for the
work order.
Date Completed - Specify the actual date on which the work order is completed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

931 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Reservation No. - Specify the reservation number for the work being performed.
6. Optionally, specify this Structure information:
Facility - Specify the facility where the work will be performed.
7. Optionally, specify Additional Information in the appropriate section.
8. Specify this Activity information:
Profession - Specify the profession required to perform the activity.
If you enter a Profession, Estimated Hours, or People Required in the
Activity section of the page, an activity will automatically be created for this work order.
An activity record can be deleted when you remove the Profession value.
Task Plan - Specify the task plan code for the activity.
Activity Start Date / Activity End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for the
activity associated with the work order.
Estimated Hours - Specify the estimated number of hours required to complete the
activity. Hours Remaining is automatically populated with the estimated number of
hours remaining for the activity. You may update this field at any time during the life
cycle of the work order.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to perform the activity.
9. Click Save Record.

Creating production requests
Create and edit production requests based on open work orders in HxGN EAM. When
production requests are approved, the system sends the request to Infor ERP so that a
corresponding production order can be created.
Once HxGN EAM receives the production order the system updates the request with the
production order details.
To create production requests:
1. Select Work > Production Requests.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

932 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for the production request. The system
automatically populates Revision, Production Order, Production Start Date,
Production End Date, Enterprise Location, Accounting Entity, and Created By.
Production Request - Specify a unique identifying code for the production request, and
then enter a description of the production request in the adjacent field.
If Production Request is left blank, the system will automatically populate
Production Request.
Work Order - Specify the work order with which to associate to the production request.
Status - Select the status of the production request.
Production Priority - Specify the priority in which the production request should be
generated.
Earliest Start Date - Specify the earliest date for which production can begin.
Latest End Date - Specify the latest date for which production can end.
Class - Specify the class for which the production request should be generated.
Revision Reason - Specify a reason for the revision of the production request.
Priority - Specify the priority of the production request.
4. Click Save Record.
The system automatically populates Date Created.
To revise the production request, click Create New Revision. The system
updates Revision. New revisions can only be created when the production request
Status is Approved. The system does not copy Revision Reason to the copy.

Defining parameters for generating production requests
Define a list of parameters to select work orders for which to generate production requests.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

933 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To define parameters for production requests:
1. Select Work > Generate Production Requests.
2. Select the saved selection parameters.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which the to generate production requests if
you use multi-organizational security.
Department - Specify the department for which production requests should be
generated.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which production requests should be generated.
Type - Specify the type for which production requests should be generated.
Class - Specify the class for which production requests should be generated.
Priority - Specify the priority for which production requests should be generated.
Production Priority - Specify the priority in which the production request should be
generated.
Requested Start Date Range - Specify a start date and an end date for the generation
of the production request.
Supervisor - Specify the supervisor for the production request.
Location - Specify the location for which production requests should be generated.
Assigned To - Specify the employee assigned to the production request.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code for the production request.
PM - Specify the PM schedule for which production requests should be generated.
PM Class - Specify the PM class for which production requests should be generated.
Resource - Specify the resource for which production requests should be generated.
4. Choose one of the following options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

934 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Use Widest Range for Requested Dates - Select to use the widest range for the
requested dates for the generation of the production request.
Use Narrowest Range for Requested Dates - Select to use the narrowest range for
the requested dates for the generation of the production request.
5. Choose one of the following options:
Use Sum of Values for Downtime - Select to use the sum of values to calculate
downtime for the production request.
Use Maximum Value for Downtime - Select to use the maximum value to calculate
downtime for the production request.
6. Specify this information:
Generated Production Request Status - Specify the status to assign to generated
production requests.
7. Optionally, select the Include Work Orders Without Resources check box to include
work orders with no resources.
8. Click Process.
The system displays the WO Preview page listing all of the work orders for which to
generate production requests.

Associating ERP resources to production requests
Associate ERP resources to selected production requests.
The system will only associate ERP resources to production requests with an
Unfinished Status.
A resource is a line of products, equipment, or materials used to complete a job.
To associate ERP resources to production requests:
1. Select Work > Production Requests.
2. Select the production request with which to associate ERP resources, and then click the
Resources tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

935 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Add Resource.
4. Specify this information:
Resource - Specify the resource to associate to the selected production request. The
system automatically populates Accounting Entity and Name.
Operation Sequence - Specify the order in which this resource will be impacted when
work is performed on the equipment.
Cool-down Time (Hours) - Specify the time it takes in hours for the resource line to
cool down before performing production requests.
Warm-up Time (Hours) - Specify the time it takes in hours for the resource line to warm
up before normal use.
Downtime (Hours) - Specify the expected downtime in hours for the selected
production request.
Offset - Select to designate this resource line as offset, or that the resource impacted
by down equipment will overlap with the previous resource.
Offset Value - Specify the amount of time in hours in which the resource impacted by
down equipment, overlaps the previous resource.
5. Click Submit.

• The system deletes a resource association only if the production request Status is
Unfinished.
• To associate resources to the production request not associated with the selected
equipment, click All Resources. Select a resource, and then click Submit.
• To refresh resources associated, select the resource record to refresh, and then
click Refresh Resources.

Viewing work orders associated to production requests
View a list of work orders associated to production requests. For production requests that
have been flagged as bundles, the system displays multiple work orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

936 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To view work orders associated to production requests:
1. Select Work > Advanced Maintenance Planning > Production Requests.
2. Select the production request with which to view associated work orders, and then click
the Work Orders tab.
3. View the information.
Click on the work order hyperlink to navigate to the Work Orders page for the
selected work order.

Excluding work order types from generating production requests
Specify the work order types to exclude when generating production requests from work
orders. If the type is marked for exclusion here, the work orders will not be generated into
production requests.
To exclude work order types from generating production requests:
1. Select Work > Advanced Maintenance Planning > Advanced Maintenance Planning
Configuration.
2. Click the Exclude WO Types tab.
3. Click Add WO Type.
4. Specify this information:
WO Type - Select the work order type for which not to generate production requests
from work orders.
5. Click Submit.

Identifying work order status changes for production requests
Identify work order status changes which will trigger production requests to be automatically
generated for work orders matching the specified type.
If the status change trigger is not defined here for the work order type then a
production request will not be automatically created. The production request will need to be

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

937 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

created using the Generate Production Request screen.
To identify work order status changes for production requests:
1. Select Work > Advanced Maintenance Planning Configuration.
2. Click Add Trigger.
3. Specify this information:
Old WO Status - Select the old work order status.
New WO Status - Select the new work order status.
WO Type - Select the work order type for which to automatically generate production
requests once the work order status changes.
Generated Production Request Status - Select the status for the generated
production request.
4. Click Submit.

Selecting work orders for generating production requests
Select one or more work orders and preview the resulting list of potential production requests.
To select work orders for generating production requests:
1. Select Work > Process > Generate Production Requests.
2. Select the saved selection parameters to open an existing session.
3. Click the WO Preview tab.
4. Select the work orders for which to generate production requests, and then click
Preview Production Requests.
5. Select the work order resources for which to generate production requests, and then
click Create Production Requests.

Previewing production requests

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

938 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select one or more work order resources from which to generate production requests.
To preview production requests:
1. Select Work > Generate Production Requests.
2. Select the saved selection parameters.
See Defining parameters for generating production requests.
3. Click the WO Preview tab.
4. Select the work orders from which to generate production requests, and then click
Preview Production Requests.
5. Select the work order resources from which to generate production requests. The
system automatically populates Single Resource WO.
6. Specify this information:
Earliest Start Date - Specify the earliest date to generate production requests.
Latest End Date - Specify the latest date to generate production requests. The system
automatically populates Bundle.
Operation Sequence - Specify the order in which this resource will be impacted when
work is performed on the equipment.
Cool-down Time (Hours) - Specify the time it takes in hours for the work order
resource to cool down before use.
Warm-up Time (Hours) - Specify the time it takes in hours for the work order resource
to warm up before use.
Downtime (Hours) - Specify the number of hours the work order resources will be
down.
Offset - Select to offset this work order resource.
Offset Value (Hours) - Specify the number of hours to offset this work order resource.
7. Click Create Production Requests.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

939 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system automatically populates Error Message.

• To bundle work orders, click Bundle Work Orders.
• To display bundled work orders, click Display Bundled Work Orders. Select one
or more work orders to remove from the bundle, and then click Remove Work
Order(s) from Bundle. Click Close.
• To clear any errors, select the record, and then click Clear Error(s). The system
clears Error Message.

Specifying accomplishments on work orders
Specify and view accomplishments on an existing work order activity that occurred on a
specific date. Accomplishment records provide a way to document activities that were
completed in the field. Multiple accomplishment records may exist for a specific work order
activity or for a specific work date.
1. Select Work > Work Order.
2. Select the work order for which to enter accomplishments and then click the
Accomplishments tab.
3. Specify this information:
Activity - Specify an activity.
Type - Specify a user code for the accomplishment type.
Date Worked - Specify the date worked for the specified accomplishment
4. Optionally, specify the System Level, Assembly Level, Component Level, Action
Code, Quantity, Unit of Measurement, Crew, and Employee.
5. Select the desired activity.
6. Click Submit.

Viewing transactions for work orders

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

940 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View transactions for a work order and all associated multiple equipment child (MEC) work
orders.
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to view transactions, and then click the Transactions
tab.
3. View the transactions details.
If the selected work order is a multiple equipment work order, the transaction
lines for the related multiple equipment child (MEC) work orders are shown.

Viewing auto-generated WO sessions
View a list of sessions created by the alert management process when the Generate WOs
check box is selected in an alert. When the check box is selected for an alert, PMs or
maintenance pattern work orders are created or generated that are accessible via the session
on the Auto-Generated WO Sessions screen. You can also print the listed work orders and a
summary report for all the work orders in the selected session.
To view auto-generated WO sessions:
1. Select Work > Process > Auto-Generated WO Sessions.
2. On the List View tab, view the results summary for work order sessions.
3. Optionally, select a session, and then click Print Work Order or Print Summary to run
the associated report for all work orders in the session.
4. Optionally, click the Work Orders tab to view a list of the associated work orders in the
selected session.

Viewing compatible units library records associated to work
orders
View a list of all compatible units library records to which activities of a selected work order
are associated to a work order..
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order record to view, and then click the Compatible Units tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

941 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. View the compatible units work order activities details.
If work order activities have been generated from a CU estimate, the
associated activity for the compatible units library record will also be displayed.

Dispatching crews to work in the field
EAM Constraint Optimizer uses EAM data to dispatch crews to work order activities in the
field for optimized task assignment and efficient route planning.
Crews are dispatched based on the qualifications required to complete the work, the crew
location, travel distanced to the site of the work order activity, crew availability, and the
number of people required to complete the job.
First, a schedule request is initiated in EAM to the constraint optimizer which includes the
work order activity and crew data from EAM. Next, the optimizer matches the best employee
resources to the field activities, and then arranges the assignments in sequential order that is
most effective given the constraints.
Finally, the best schedule is returned to the requestor in EAM, providing a sequentially
ordered list of activity assignments for each resource. Additionally, the scheduler provides a
list of activities that could not be scheduled due to the inability to satisfy or meet the day's
constraints.
The constraint optimizer assigns qualified crews to work order activities while optimizing the
assignment ordering to ensure priority activities come first and travel distance is minimal,
within the crew's shift time frame. The best schedule solution is returned to EAM and
assigned crews are input as dispatch labor records for the appropriate activities.

Setting up the scheduler
Create different configurations to define the records for several entities that will be exported
from HxGN EAM to the Constraint Optimizer.
The EAM data sent to the scheduler includes work order activities, and crew and shift data.
This data is evaluated by the scheduler which also evaluates the distance between work
sites, qualifications for completion of work, and priority.
Use this screen to determine which records to send to the scheduler so that the crews are
dispatched appropriately. Choose a Dataspy for each entity on the WO Activities, Employees,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

942 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Crews, and Shifts tabs to define the data that is sent for evaluation.
1. Select Work > Setup > Optimized Scheduler Setup.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Code - Specify a unique code identifying the setup, and then specify a description of the
setup in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization of the work order activity.
4. Optionally, select the Active check box to make the record active in the system.
Selecting this check box makes the Next Evaluation Date and the Dataspy
fields required.
5. Specify this Scheduling information:
Frequency - Specify how often the constraint optimizer will run to export the data.
Next Evaluation Date - Specify the next date to evaluate the data for export.
6. Specify this Export Data Details information:
WO Activities Dataspy - Select the Dataspy to determine which work order activity
data is sent to the constraint optimizer.
Shifts Dataspy - Select which shift data is sent to the constraint optimizer.
Crews Dataspy - Select which crew data is sent to the constraint optimizer.
Employees Dataspy - Select which employee data is sent to the constraint optimizer.
Vehicles Dataspy - Select which vehicle data is sent to the constraint optimizer.
7. Click Save Record.
8. Optionally, click Test Optimized Scheduler Connection.
The WOOSURL parameter must contain the URL to the constraint optimizer to
successfully connect to the scheduler. Contact your system administrator for more
information.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

943 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

9. When you are ready to export the data to the scheduler, click Run Optimized
Scheduler.

Defining work order activities for export to the constraint optimizer
Create one or more Dataspies to define the work order activities to export to the constraint
optimizer for the selected setup record.
1. Select Work > Optimized Scheduler Setup.
2. Select the constraint optimizer setup record for which to export work order activities, and
then click the WO Activities tab.
3. Run the Dataspy to generate the work order activity records for export to the constraint
optimizer.

Defining employees for export to the constraint optimizer
Create one or more Dataspies to define the employee records to export to the constraint
optimizer for the selected setup record.
1. Select Work > Optimized Scheduler Setup.
2. Select the constraint optimizer setup record for which to export employees, and then
click the Employees tab.
3. Run the Dataspy to generate the employee records for export to the constraint
optimizer.

Defining crews for export to the constraint optimizer
Create one or more Dataspies to define the crews to export to the constraint optimizer for the
selected setup record.
1. Select Work > Optimized Scheduler Setup.
2. Select the constraint optimizer setup record for which to export crews, and then click the
Crews tab.
3. Run the Dataspy to generate the crew records for export to the constraint optimizer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

944 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining shifts for export to the constraint optimizer
Create one or more Dataspies to define the shifts to export to the constraint optimizer for the
selected setup record.
1. Select Work > Optimized Scheduler Setup.
2. Select the constraint optimizer setup record for which to export shifts, and then click the
Shifts tab.
3. Run the Dataspy to generate the shift records for export to the constraint optimizer.

Exporting data to the scheduler
Process the setup records for the different configurations you created to export data from
HxGN EAM to the Constraint Optimizer.
You can click the Run Optimized Scheduler button on a specific setup record to dispatch
data for that record only, or you can wait on the constraint optimizer job to process all "active"
setup records.
The WOOSURL parameter must contain the URL to the constraint optimizer to
successfully connect to the scheduler. Contact your system administrator for more
information.
1. Select Work > Setup > Optimized Scheduler Setup.
2. Select the record for which to export data, and then click Run Optimized Scheduler.
Records with Optimized Scheduler Status set to Active and Next Evaluation Date set
to any date in the past are processed by the job.
As the job processes each setup record, Optimized Scheduler Status is set to
Processing, and Last Evaluation Date, and Next Evaluation Date are automatically
populated. Records processing for that one hour are re-processed by the job.
3. Once the records are processed successfully, the following occurs:
• Last Optimized Scheduler Process Date for the setup record is populated with
the system date and time.
• Optimized Scheduler Status for the setup record is set to Complete.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

945 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• A dispatch labor record is created for each work order activity that is successfully
dispatched to the constraint optimizer.
• Error messages are shown for each work order activity not dispatched. Examples
of reasons for failure to dispatch include "no qualified crew available" or "not
enough availability to dispatch the activity."

Inspection management
The inspection management module coordinates with the work management module to give
you more control over preventive maintenance (PM) functions within your organization.
Set up PM routes in the work management module, and then enhance the PM route
information in the inspection management module by adding inspection points, inspection
methods, and inspection conditions.
First, enter the inspection information, and then establish high and low tolerances for
inspection readings. When a reading result exceeds the high or low tolerance, the system
automatically generates a corrective work order. The HxGN EAM inspection process will
lower your organization’s maintenance costs and ensure asset reliability.

Inspection management terms
The following terms will help you become familiar with the inspection management module’s
unique attributes:

Term

Inspection Point

Definition

The physical location on the piece of equipment to inspect
Example: Examine the tires on a van every three months
for tread wear. The inspection points are the front left tire,
the front right tire, the rear left tire, and the rear right tire.
Also, define inspection points at the category level so that
the points apply to all equipment within the specified
category.
Example: Define inspection points for all vans rather than

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

946 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

for a specific van.

Inspection Point Type

Groups of similar inspection points
Example: Inspection point types for a vehicle are tires,
brakes, headlights, etc. For a pipe, the point type could be
a tee or weld.

Inspection Aspect

The item(s) measured during an inspection. An inspection
point can have multiple inspection aspects.
Example: To check the oil aspect, measure the available oil
against the dipstick. Another example is wall thickness.

Time Dependence

Indication of the trend for the inspection aspect over a
period of time. The dependence can be either linearly
increasing or linearly decreasing.
Example: Tire tread decreases linearly over time. The
mineral deposits in water pipes increase linearly over time,
restricting water flow.

Inspection Point Conditions

Restrictions on inspecting a piece of equipment
Example: When inspecting tire tread, the tires cannot be in
motion, and they should be relatively clean from dirt and
debris.
Define general conditions, which apply to all aspects, or
define conditions that are aspect specific.

Inspection Unit

The unit of measure for the inspection
Example: Tire tread measurements may be in centimeters
or fractional inches.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

947 of 2039

Inspection Method

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The detailed description of how to carry out the inspection
Example: The inspection method for checking tire tread is
simple: insert the tire gauge between the tire treads and
note the amount of tread on the tire.

Nominal Value

A standard against which to measure aspects
Example: When a snow tire is new, its tread is 9/32 of an
inch. The dealership recommends replacing the tire when
the tread reaches 2/32. The nominal value would be 9/32 of
an inch.

Extreme Value

Either a minimum or maximum value that defines the range
of acceptable inspection readings
Example: The minimum extreme value for tire tread is 1/32.
The maximum value is 9/32. Tire tread measurements
between these two values are acceptable.

Critical Value

The value that indicates when to take action for an aspect
Example: When tire tread reaches 2/32 of an inch, replace
the tire.

Tolerance

The percentage amount above or below the critical value.
The tolerance defines the safety limits, which are the
values that signal the need for a new inspection.
Example: A tolerance of 5 percent is set for tire tread. If a
measurement is 5 percent above or below 2/32 of an inch
(the critical value), initiate a new inspection.

Inspection Route Template

A sorted list of inspection points defined for a category (not
a specific piece of equipment), outlining both the sequence
and the content of an inspection

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

948 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Apply the template to any piece of equipment in a category.
The system stores the template in the database library and
attaches it to a work order when you need it.
Example: Set up a route template for 12,000, 36,000, and
60,000-mile tune-ups for vehicles. When it is time to
perform the tune-up, attach the tune-up template to a work
order for a 1991 Ford Passenger Van.

Inspection Route for Work
Order

An aspect-specific subset of an inspection route template
that can associate a route with a specific work order.

Route Status

The status of an inspection route changes as the inspection
moves through its life- cycle. This list describes the status
codes.
Blank (no status) - Add or remove inspection aspects and
points.
Unfinished - Enter the results of the inspection.
Ready - All results are entered in the system, and you can
process the results. At this point, you cannot make any
changes to the results.
Request Approval - Update the inspection point result
type only.
Approved/Processed - The results are frozen, and you
can update the inspection point result type only.
Canceled - User cannot make any changes, and the route
is considered "dead.

Finding Code

Defines observations or measurements that you can only
report qualitatively

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

949 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: It is difficult to gauge water color (clear, hazy,
swampy). In this situation, set up finding codes for clear,
hazy, and swampy.

Result Type

Indicates the validity of an inspection reading or result
Example: When a finding is "Valid," include the value in
system calculations. When a finding is "Invalid," do not
include the value in calculations. When a finding indicates
discontinuity, take a new reading.

Defining inspection codes
Define inspection codes before defining inspection parameters.

Defining inspection aspects
Define codes to represent specific aspects to measure. Measure one or multiple aspects
against standards or gauges.
Although you can define additional time dependence codes on the Installation Parameters
form, the system only uses the linearly increasing or decreasing codes for internal
calculations.
You cannot delete inspection aspect codes after associating them with inspection points.
To define inspection aspects:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Aspects.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Aspect - Specify a unique code identifying the inspection aspect, and then enter a
description of the aspect in the adjacent field.
Time Dependency - Select Linearly Increasing or Linearly Decreasing. The time
dependence parameter is used to calculate when equipment will exceed safety margins.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

950 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Class - Specify the class of the aspect.
Out of Service - Select to indicate that the system does not use this aspect.
Random Result - Select to permit entry of measurements without requiring an
associated inspection point.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining inspection point types
Inspection point types are groups of similar inspection points. Associating inspection points
with point types simplifies data entry and analysis by standardizing descriptions.
You cannot delete inspection point type codes after associating them with inspection
points.
To define inspection point types:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Point Types.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Point Type - Specify a unique code identifying the inspection point type, and then enter
a description of the point type in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the inspection point type.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining inspection methods
Inspections involve procedures or methods. With this feature, define the method of inspecting
a particular aspect of a piece of equipment.
You cannot delete inspection method codes after associating them with inspection
points or inspection aspects.
To define inspection methods:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

951 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Inspections > Methods.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Method - Specify a unique code identifying the inspection method, and then enter a
description of the method in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the inspection method.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining inspection conditions
Inspection conditions are restrictions on inspections. The conditions differ with different
equipment. For example, check the brake system of a vehicle only when it is stationary with
the wheels removed. For other equipment, the weather or the temperature might restrict an
inspection.
The system includes, on the work order printout, any conditions that must be met prior to the
inspection.
To define inspection conditions:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Conditions.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Condition - Specify a unique code identifying the inspection condition, and then enter a
description of the condition in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the inspection condition.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining inspection findings
Define codes that represent the results of an inspection. All of the codes defined on this form
represent qualitative findings, not quantitative results. For example, a qualitative finding of a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

952 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

pipe inspection is "The pipe is leaking."
Associate one or more equipment classes with a specific inspection finding. For example,
associate tire tread wear results with vehicle classes (four door sedans, two door sedans,
vans, etc.).
You cannot delete inspection findings codes after associating them with classes or
inspection results.
1. Select Work > Inspections > Findings.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Finding - Specify a unique code identifying the inspection finding, and then enter a
description of the finding in the adjacent field.
General - Select to associate the finding with all equipment inspections. Clear the check
box to associate specific equipment classes with the finding on the Classes page of the
Findings form. In this situation, the finding is displayed in the list of values for the
relevant equipment.
You cannot select General if the finding is associated with one or more
equipment classes.
4. Click Save Record.

Assigning equipment classes to findings
Assign equipment classes to a finding on the Classes page. The Classes page displays a list
of equipment classes assigned to a particular finding. A finding may have multiple equipment
class assignments, if it is not a General finding, which by default applies to all equipment
classes.
For example, equipment with a class of HVAC may have different findings than equipment
with a class of MOTOR. When you enter inspection results for a piece of equipment with a
class of HVAC, only the General findings and those assigned specifically to the HVAC class
will appear in Finding on any inspection result entry form.
You cannot assign classes to a General finding.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

953 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To assign equipment classes to findings:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Findings.
2. Select the finding to which to assign an equipment class, and then click the Classes
tab.
3. Click Add Class.
4. Specify this information:
Class - Specify the equipment class to which to assign the finding.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing monitored data
View equipment, locations, categories, and profiles for inspection-related details.
To view monitored data:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Monitored Data.
2. View the monitored data information.

Defining points
Define equipment inspection points, equipment inspection aspects, equipment inspection
aspect points, and equipment inspection conditions. Finally, enter additional equipment
inspection information and record equipment inspection results.

Defining equipment inspection points
Associate inspection points with specific equipment or categories. For example, when
examining the tread wear on tires of a van, the equipment is the van, and the inspection
points are the four tires. You can also associate inspection points with categories.
To define equipment inspection points:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Monitored Data.
2. Select the equipment, profile, or equipment category for which to define inspection

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

954 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

points, and then click the Points tab.
3. Click Add Point.
4. Specify this information:
Point Type - Specify the inspection type to associate with the equipment or equipment
category.
Point - Specify the inspection point number.
5. Click Submit.
You cannot remove point records that are indirectly associated with the monitored
data object.

Defining equipment inspection aspects
Associate aspects with equipment or categories. For example, specify a category of vans or a
particular van, and then associate it with the inspection aspect of measuring tire tread.
To define equipment inspection aspects:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Monitored Data.
2. Select the equipment, equipment class, or equipment category for which to enter
inspection aspect information, and then click the Aspects tab.
3. Click Add Aspect. Origin is automatically populated.
4. Specify this information:
Aspect - Specify the inspection aspect with which to associate the monitored data
object.
Method - Specify the inspection method for the aspect as necessary.
Nominal Value - Specify the starting value or normal value and unit of measure for
measurements on this aspect. For example, if a new pipe’s wall thickness is 3 mm, the
nominal value is 3 and the unit of measure is mm.
Min. Extreme - Specify the minimum extreme value beyond the operating specifications

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

955 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

for the aspect.
Min. Critical - Specify the lowest possible value for the aspect.
Min. Tolerance - Specify the minimum percentage of critical value for the aspect.
Min. Std. WO - Specify a standard work order to restore normal operating conditions
when the minimum critical value is reached.
Min. PM - Specify a preventive maintenance work order to restore normal operating
conditions when the minimum critical value is reached.
Max. Extreme - Specify the maximum extreme value beyond the operating
specifications for the aspect.
Max. Critical - Specify the highest possible value for the aspect.
Max. Tolerance - Specify the maximum percentage of critical value for the aspect.
Max. Std. WO - Specify a standard work order to restore normal operating conditions
when the maximum critical value is reached.
Max. PM - Specify a preventive maintenance work order to restore normal operating
conditions when the maximum critical value is reached.
5. Click Submit.
You cannot remove aspect records that are indirectly associated with the monitored
data object.

Defining equipment inspection aspect points
Define minimum and maximum measurement values for the equipment. When inspection
aspect measurements exceed acceptable values, the system automatically generates work
orders to correct the problems. Inspection aspect point information is similar to the information
on the Aspect page but is specific for an aspect/point combination.
To define equipment inspection aspect points:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Monitored Data.
2. Select the equipment, equipment class, or equipment category for which to enter aspect

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

956 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

point information, and then click the Aspect Points tab.
3. Click Add Aspect Point.
4. Specify this information:
Aspect - Specify the inspection aspect with which to associate the aspect point.
Point - Specify the point with which to associate the aspect point. Point Type and the
point type description are automatically populated.
Point Type - Specify the point type with which to associate the aspect point.
Method - Specify the inspection method for the aspect as necessary.
Nominal Value - Specify the starting value or normal value and unit of measure for
measurements on this aspect point. For example, if a new pipe’s wall thickness is 3 mm,
the nominal value is 3 and the unit of measure is mm.
Min. Extreme - Specify the minimum extreme value beyond the operating specifications
for the aspect point.
Min. Extreme must be less than Min. Critical.
Min. Critical - Specify the lowest possible value for the aspect point.
Min. Critical must be less than the Nominal Value.
Min. Tolerance - Specify the minimum percentage of critical value for the aspect point.
Min. Std. WO - Specify a standard work order to restore normal operating conditions
when the minimum critical value is reached.
Min. PM - Specify a preventive maintenance work order to restore normal operating
conditions when the minimum critical value is reached.
Max. Extreme - Specify the maximum extreme value beyond the operating
specifications for the aspect point.
Max. Extreme must be greater than or equal to the Min. Extreme and Max.
Critical.
Max. Critical - Specify the highest possible value for the aspect point.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

957 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Max. Critical must be greater than the Nominal Value and greater than or
equal to Min. Critical.
Max. Tolerance - Specify the maximum percentage of critical value for the aspect point.
Max. Std. WO - Specify a standard work order to restore normal operating conditions
when the maximum critical value is reached.
Max. PM - Specify a preventive maintenance work order to restore normal operating
conditions when the maximum critical value is reached.
5. Click Submit.
You cannot remove aspect point records that are indirectly associated with the
monitored data object.

Copying aspect points
Copy existing aspect points associated with a source monitored data object to a selected
destination monitored data object.
You cannot copy aspect points if you do not have the proper permissions to access
the Aspect Points page.
1. Select Work > Inspections > Monitored Data.
2. Select the monitored data object to which to copy aspect points, and then click the
Aspect Points tab.
3. Click Copy Aspect Points. Destination and the destination description are
automatically populated.
4. Specify this information:
Source - Specify the source object. The source description and the list of aspect points
directly associated with the source object are automatically populated.
5. Select each aspect point to be copied from the source object to the destination object.
You must select at least one aspect point that is associated with the source
object.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

958 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To select all the aspect points at once, select the Select check box. To clear all the
aspect points at once, clear the Select check box.
6. Click Copy.
You cannot copy aspect points that are already associated with the destination object
from the source object to the destination object.

Defining equipment inspection conditions
Specify conditions to meet before inspecting a piece of equipment. For example, conditions
for a boiler inspection might include blocking all inlet and outlet valves, cutting the fires from
the burners approximately 8 hours prior to the inspection, and cooling the inside of the boiler
for 24 hours.
To define equipment inspection conditions:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Monitored Data.
2. Select the equipment, profile, or equipment category for which to define equipment
inspection conditions, and then click the Point Conditions tab.
3. Click Add Point Condition. Origin is automatically populated.
4. Specify this information:
Point - Specify the point with which to associate the inspection condition and Point
Type.
Condition - Specify the inspection condition.
Aspect - Specify the aspect with which to associate the inspection condition as
necessary.
Do not enter an Aspect when the Condition applies to the Point, regardless of
what aspect is being measured.
5. Click Submit.

• You cannot remove point conditions records that are indirectly associated with the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

959 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

monitored data object.
• You cannot create a new point condition with the same combination of Point, Point
Type, and Aspect as an existing point condition.

Entering additional equipment inspection information
To enter additional equipment inspection information:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Monitored Data.
2. Select the equipment, profile, or equipment category for which to enter additional
equipment inspection information, and then click the Equipment Details tab.
3. Specify this information:
Piping Class - Specify the piping class of the equipment as necessary.
Material Standard - Specify the material standard of the equipment as necessary.
Nominal OD - Specify a numeric value for the pipe’s nominal outer diameter. Then,
specify the unit of measure for the diameter by selecting Inch or mm (millimeters).
MAOP
Lining/Coating - Specify the relevant values according to the design specifications
listed by the manufacturer or international standards organizations.
Variable 1
Text 5 - Specify any additional information about the object.
4. Click Save Record.
You cannot delete equipment details records that are indirectly associated via the
equipment’s category with the monitored data object. If the existing equipment details record
is not directly associated with the monitored data object, click Copy Category Data to
Equipment to directly associate the equipment details record from the details of the indirectly
associated equipment details record.

Recording equipment inspection results
To record equipment inspection results:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

960 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The fields below are fixed. Variable fields are displayed based on the selected
aspect. Once you select the Aspect in the header, the prompts related to the aspect that
were defined on the Prompts page of the Aspects form are displayed. Specify information
for the prompts accordingly. The prompts with formulas as read-only attached at record insert
or update are displayed.
1. Select Work > Inspections > Monitored Data.
2. Select the equipment, equipment class, or equipment category for which to record
inspection results, and then click the Results tab.
3. Click Add Result.
4. Specify this information:
Aspect - Specify the aspect associated with the equipment.
Point - Specify the inspection point for which to record results.
Point Type - Specify the inspection point type for which to enter results.
Date - Specify the date of the inspection.
Confidence Rating - Select the confidence rating of the results.
Result - Select one of the following options:
• Valid - Select to indicate that the system uses the result in trend analysis.
• Invalid - Select to indicate that the system does not use the result in trend
analysis.
• Discontinuity - Select to indicate that the system restarts the trend analysis.
Work Order - Specify a work order with which to associate the results.
Completed - Select to indicate that all results are recorded and verified for this
record. Information for this record is frozen.
You cannot modify Completed results.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

961 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining and associating inspection routes
Define inspection routes and then associate the routes with specific PM work orders.
Defining inspection routes

Follow a prescribed inspection route when performing an inspection. Define inspection routes
for a category or for specific pieces of equipment.

Defining inspection route inspection points
Associate inspection routes with a particular sequence of inspection points. The options
shown depend on whether you are defining an inspection route for equipment or a route
template.
1. Select Work > WO Planning > Routes.
2. Select the inspection route for which to define inspection points, and then click the
Inspection Points tab. Sequence Number is automatically populated with the next
available integer based on the setting of the installation parameter INCRLINO.
3. Click Add Point.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment Category - Specify the equipment or category that is first in the inspection
route sequence.
For regular inspection routes, you associate equipment inspection points. For
route templates, you associate category inspection points.
Point Type - Specify the point type.
Level - Specify a level value when associating category inspection points. This value
tells where the inspection point is found in the equipment structure. The equipment
specified on the work order is a level 1. Any child equipment items (of the same type)
are a level 2 or higher. If you leave this field blank, the existing equipment hierarchy are
automatically searched (as defined on the Equipment form). Inspection points for all
child equipment that match the specified class and category are associated independent
of the level.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

962 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Point - Specify the point that is first in the inspection route sequence.
Sequence Number - Specify the sequence number of the inspection point.
5. Click Submit.

Associating inspection routes to work orders
Associate inspection routes with specific PM work orders after defining inspection routes and
corresponding inspection points. Work order inspection points will also be created for the
work order if at least one inspection route inspection point exists for the inspection route.
In order to associate an inspection route with a work order, the work order must have
a system status of Released.
Depending on your system configuration, Route and Inspection Status may not be
displayed. Contact your system administrator for additional information.
To associate inspection routes with work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Click New Record.
3. Enter the information necessary to define a work order.
4. Specify this information:
Route - Enter the inspection route to associate with the work order. If Route is a
template route, you must also enter Equipment.
5. Click Save Record. Inspection Status is automatically populated with Unfinished.

Associating inspection points with work orders
Associate inspection points with a particular work order. Use this feature only when the work
order has a system status of Released or Completed and when the inspection route has a
status of Unfinished. Finally, enter the results of the inspection into the system after the
employee performs the inspection.
To associate inspection points with work orders:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

963 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order with which to associate inspection points, and then click the
Inspections tab.
3. Click Add Point.
4. Specify this Point Details information:
Point - Specify the point to associate with the work order.
Sequence Number - Specify the sequence number of the inspection point.
Method - Specify the inspection method.
Comments - Specify any additional comments.
New WO Required is automatically selected if Value exceeds the upper or
lower critical value specified for the aspect point.
5. Specify this Result Details information:
Date - Specify the date of the inspection.
Result - Specify the reliability code for the inspection (this code is also used in
regression analysis). Choose one of the following options:

Option

Description

The measurement is acceptable Select Valid.

The measurement is wrong

Select Invalid.

The inspection point has been
changed so drastically that all
previous inspection results for
this point must be deactivated

Select Discontinuity.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

964 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If you are entering result details for the work order, you must enter both Date
and Result.
Value - Specify the value and unit of measure of the inspection.
Finding - Specify the inspection finding.
Inspected By - Specify the employee that performed the inspection.
Location - Specify the location of the inspection.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order associated with the inspection.
New WO Required - Select to generate a work order based on the inspection results.
Class - Specify the class of the inspection.
Note - Enter any additional notes.
6. Specify this Linear Reference Details information:
From Point - Specify the starting or from point on the linear equipment record where
the issue was found during the inspection.
Ref. Description - Specify a description for the From Point.
Geographical Ref. - Specify the geographical reference for the From Point.
To Point - Specify the ending or to point on the linear equipment record where the issue
was found during the inspection.
Ref. Description - Specify a description for the To Point.
Geographical Ref. - Specify the geographical reference for the To Point.
7. If necessary, click Create New WO to generate the work order immediately. However, if
the system status of the route is Approved, you cannot create a new work order. You
must also select New WO Required to create new work orders. A new work order is
created based on the details of the work order inspection point and inserts the work
order number for Work Order.
If you do not create a new work order by clicking Create New WO, a work
order is automatically created after the inspection results are approved.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

965 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

8. Optionally, click Linear Location Details to adjust detailed location information of linear
equipment on inspections, using linear references associated to the equipment. See
Identifying detailed location information for equipment on checklists.
9. Click Save Record.

Changing inspection statuses
After defining routes and corresponding inspection points and associating routes with specific
work orders, change the statuses of selected work order inspections during different phases
of the inspection process.
In order to change the status of an inspection, the work order must have a system
status of Released or Completed; have inspection points defined; have Inspection Status
defined (usually with a Work Order Inspection Status of Unfinished); and not be part of an MS
Project scheduling session.
To change inspection statuses:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to change the inspection status, and then click the
Inspections tab.
3. Select the inspection point for which to change the inspection status, and then click
Change Inspection Status. Work Order, work order description, Route, route
description, and Current Status are automatically populated.
4. Specify this information:
New Status - Specify the new status of the inspection.
5. Click Submit.

Adding inspection point comments
Add comments for work order inspection points. To add inspection point comments:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order to associate with inspection points, and then click the Inspections

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

966 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

tab.
3. Click Inspection Comments.
4. Click Add Comment.
5. Specify this information:
Language - Select the language in which to write the comment.
Comments - Enter the inspection point comments.
6. Optionally, select the Print with Document check box to print the comments with the
work order.
7. Click Save.
8. Click Close.

Adding inspection custom fields
Add custom fields to work order inspections to further define inspections.
Custom fields associated with a class defined for the inspection result entity (INRH)
are displayed only when Class and Class Org. on the work order are equal to Class and
Class Org. on a class record that is associated with INRH.
To add inspection custom fields:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order to associate with inspection points, and then click the Inspections
tab.
3. Click Inspection Custom Fields.
4. Specify inspection custom fields as necessary.
5. Click Submit.

Adding inspection point custom fields
Add custom fields to work order inspection points to further define inspection points.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

967 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To add inspection point custom fields:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order to associate with inspection points, and then click the Inspections
tab.
3. Select the inspection point for which to add custom fields, and then click Point Custom
Fields.
4. Enter inspection point custom fields as necessary.
5. Click Submit.

Approving inspection results
The Approve Inspection Results form consists of two pages: the Parameters page and the
Preview page. On the Parameters page, you can define the selection criteria for locating the
inspection points to process in the batch. The Preview page allows you to preview all of the
inspection points selected for processing based on the selection parameters, enabling you to
select or clear inspection points to include in the batch generation process before you actually
process the inspection point batch. You can select or clear individual inspection points for
processing, or you can select or clear all inspection points for processing.
In order to approve inspection points, you must have the necessary authorizations to
the Approve Inspection Result form and the Preview page, and you must enter a specific
organization.
1. Select Work > Process > Approve Inspection Results.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the inspection point belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Inspection Status - Specify the status to determine at which point the batch approval of
work order inspection points is to be performed.
When the system is prompted to perform the batch approval of work order
inspection points, work order inspection points that are associated with a work order
whose inspection status is equal to the status specified here will be included.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

968 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify one or all of these selection parameters for generating the inspection point
batch.
• Route
• Work Order
• PM
• Equipment Type
• Equipment
• Location
• Department
• Equipment Class
• Category
3. Click Process.
4. Select each inspection point you wish to approve in the inspection point batch as
necessary, or you can unselect each inspection point you do not wish to approve in the
inspection point batch as necessary.
To select all the inspection points at once, select the Select check box. To clear
all the inspection points at once, clear the Select check box.
5. Click Approve. The Inspection Status of any affected work orders is updated. If any
errors occur, then the record’s visual attribute is changed to red, and an error message
is displayed in the Error Message column of the Preview list.
If you have set up the system to require an electronic signature to authorize
status changes to work order headers or to create work orders, the eSignature pop-up is
displayed once for every inspection point in the inspection point batch for which there is
a status change or a new work order is created.

Defining formulas
Define generic formulas to establish any calculation that produces a minimum or maximum

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

969 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

critical value for an inspection point aspect combination or any calculation with entered
monitored data, and then identify where those formulas are executed. First, define the actual
formula, and then define parameters used within the formula. Formulas with SQL statements
defined for the parameters used in the formula are calculated.
To define formulas:
1. Select Work > Inspections > Formulas.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Formula ID - Specify a unique code identifying the formula, and then enter a description
of the formula in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the formula.
Formula - Specify the actual formula using codes to identify parameters. For example,
to calculate minimum allowable thickness (MAT) for a cylindrical shell using design
pressure (DP), actual outside diameter (OD), and nominal design stress (NDS), enter
the following equation:
$MAT = $DP * $OD/ (2 * $NDS + $DP)

• All parameters must have a dollar sign prefix ($).
• To create parameters immediately, click Verify Parameters. It is verified that the
parameters exist. If they do not exist, you are asked if you want to create a new
parameter. Click Yes. A new parameter is inserted for the formula and updates the
Parameters list on the Parameters page.
• To perform a validation of a formula, click Validate Formula.
• Depending on your system configuration, Validate Parameters and Validate
Formula may not be displayed. Contact your system administrator for additional
information.
4. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

970 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Associating parameters with formulas
After defining formulas, associate parameters used within the formulas.
You can also associate parameters with formulas on the Record View page by
clicking Validate Parameters.
1. Select Work > Inspections > Formulas.
2. Select the formula for which to associate parameters, and then click the Parameters
tab.
3. Click Add Parameter.
4. Specify this information:
Parameter - Specify the parameter with which to associate the formula.
Formula UOM - Specify the unit of measurement of the formula.
5. Click Submit.
Click Validate Parameter to check the accuracy of the SQL statement.

Editing formula parameters
Edit details of an existing formula parameter.
To edit formula parameters:
1. Select Work > Inspections Formulas.
2. Select the formula for which to edit parameters, and then click the Parameters tab.
3. Select the parameter to edit, and then click Edit Parameter Details.
4. Edit the parameter details as necessary.
5. Click Submit.

Calibration management
Maintain calibration data to ensure the accuracy of your equipment. The calibration

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

971 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

management module coordinates the equipment module with the work management module.
Create and edit calibration information on the Assets, Positions, or Systems forms, and
then create calibration work orders and enter the actual calibration data on the Work Orders
form.
Load test point data and equipment calibration data using the equipment and work order
interfaces. To enable data collection for calibration data, you must define the necessary
transaction prompts on the DC Transaction Prompt form. For more information on defining
transaction prompts, see the HxGN EAM System Administrator Guide.
The calibration management module also provides extensive reporting capabilities. For more
information on generating calibrations reports, see the HxGN EAM Reports User Guide.
All calibration term are defined in the Glossary.

Understanding calibration management
Calibration is the process of comparing the performance of a piece of equipment to a known
standard of accuracy. Calibration results in a measurement that documents whether the
equipment deviates from the known standard of accuracy or is compliant with the standard. If
the equipment is not in compliance with the standard, calibration may also include adjusting
the equipment in a manner that results in the instrument’s compliance with the known
standard.
The accuracy of electronic and/or mechanical components within equipment shifts over time,
which affects the quality, reliability, health, and safety of component output. Therefore, some
instruments/equipment must be calibrated at regular intervals to ensure their accuracy.
Define calibration data for equipment categories, assets, systems, and positions. After
defining the test point data, associate equipment work orders and PM work orders. Creating
PM work orders enables you to generate regularly scheduled jobs for equipment requiring
calibration. You can also create regular calibration work orders as necessary. Designate
calibration work orders by selecting the calibration work order type when creating a work
order.
See Defining regular work order headers.
Calibrate equipment as necessary, and then enter the calibration data and results. Statuses
are assigned to calibration work orders based on the test point measurement results.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

972 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Run calibration reports for generating, tracking, and maintaining calibration data for your
records.

Understanding calibration loops
A loop is a series of one or more instruments. Typically, the individual instruments in a loop
are not calibrated; the loop is calibrated as one unit. Therefore, you must be able to measure
the output of a loop whenever you apply a known standard as the loop’s input.
Designate an instrument as a loop on the Calibration tab of the equipment record. See
Defining calibration test point data.
Depending on your system configuration, the system may not display Loop on the
Calibration tab of the Categories, Assets, Positions, or Systems forms. Contact your
system administrator for more information.
Link instruments to the loop equipment through parent-child relationships in a hierarchy. All
instruments in a loop must be linked directly as children of the loop equipment in an
equipment hierarchy. See Creating equipment hierarchies.
Within the equipment hierarchy of the loop, designate the parent equipment as a Loop and
designate the child equipment in the loop as an Instrument on the Calibration tab of the
equipment record. See Defining calibration test point data.
If you create a calibration work order for a loop, the loop is displayed on the work order
header, and the test points defined on the loop are copied to the work order. When calibrating
loops, the calibration standard is often applied to the input loop instrument. The reading is
then taken at the output loop instrument. The system creates test points on the work order for
instruments in the loop that are defined as type Reading taken from. See Entering calibration
results.

Defining calibration test point data
Define test point data for assets, positions, and systems or for equipment categories.
Define calibration data for equipment categories to associate calibration data at the category
level. The system applies the calibration data to all equipment within the specified category.
For example, define calibration test points for all pressure indicators rather than having to
enter the data individually for each pressure indicator.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

973 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system copies calibration and test point data entered for a piece of equipment to the
Calibration page of the Work Orders form when a calibration work order for the piece of
equipment is released.

Step 1: Define basic calibration data
To define basic calibration data:
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Setup > Categories
• Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations
2. Select the asset, position, system, or category for which to define calibration data, and
then click the Calibration tab.
3. Specify this information:
Instrument Loop - Select to indicate whether the piece of equipment is an individual
calibration instrument or is part of a calibration loop.
Instrument Type - Choose one of the following options if the instrument is within a loop:
• Standard applied to - Select to indicate the instrument is a point in the loop to
which a standard is applied.
• Accessory - Select to indicate the instrument is secondary or subordinate within
the loop.
• Reading taken from - Select to indicate the instrument is a point in the loop at
which calibration readings are taken.
Test Point UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the test point.
Device Tolerance - Specify the range of the device tolerance for the piece of

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

974 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equipment, e.g., 10 to 20. The values entered indicate the desired range for the
calibration measurement and can be either an absolute or a percentage.
Alert Tolerance - Specify the alert tolerance for the piece of equipment. The
system interprets the value entered as a percentage.
Precision - Specify the precision of the instrument.
Output Range - Specify numeric values indicating the potential range of the
device output, e.g., 200 to 500.
Default Set - Specify a value identifying the calibration data and test points as the
default set of test points for the equipment. Designate the set of test points as the
default set to indicate which set of test points to copy to manually created
calibration work orders. The system also copies the default set when creating PM
equipment records.
Output UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the device output.
Choose one of these options to indicate the type of value for the specified Device
Tolerance:
• Percentage - Select to apply the values entered in Device Tolerance as a percent
value.
• Absolute - Select to apply the values entered in Device Tolerance as an absolute
value.
Increment - Specify the increment that the instrument can read.
If you enter an Increment for a test point, the Device Reading that you
enter on the Calibration page of the Work Orders form must be a multiple of the
specified Increment when entering calibration results. For example, if you enter an
increment of 5, you must enter a Device Reading that is a multiple of 5, such as
5, 10, 15, 20, 25, etc.
Device Range - Specify numeric values indicating the potential range for the
device, such as 250 to 450.
Process Tolerance - Specify the range of the process tolerance, such as 10 to
20.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

975 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Process Range - Specify the range of the process, such as 150 to 600.
S.O.P. - Specify the standard operating procedure for calibration.
4. Click Save Record.
The system automatically populates Next Cal. Due with the date of the next calibration
work order for the piece of equipment.

• The system does not display Next Cal. Due on the Calibration page of the
Categories and Equipment Configurations forms.
• Update calibration data as necessary. The system applies new data entered in
Test Point UOM and Device Tolerance to work order test points created after you
make the update. The system does not update the data on existing test point
records.
• Right-click and then select View Calibration Results to view calibration results for
the equipment record.
• If you are defining calibration data for a category, click Update Equipment and
Update Equipment Configurations. The system copies the calibration data to all
equipment records within the category. Prior to copying the calibration data, the
system deletes any calibration data for this category from related equipment
records.
• The system does not display Update Equipment and Update Equipment
Configurations on the Calibration page of the Equipment Configurations.

Step 2: Define test point data
Define test point data for equipment.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

976 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Equipment > Setup > Categories
• Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations
2. Select the asset, position, system, category, or equipment configuration for which to
define test point data, and then click the Test Points tab.
Sequence and Device Tolerance are automatically populated if available.
3. Click Add Test Point.
4. Specify this information:
Set - Specify a value to identify the test point set.
Sequence - Specify a value identifying the sequence in which the test point is
calibrated.
Test Point - Specify the point at which to test the piece of equipment, and then enter
the unit of measure for the test point in the adjacent field.
Output - Specify the test point output if testing is performed for dual units of measure,
and then enter the unit of measure of the output in the adjacent field.
Device Tolerance - Specify the range of the device tolerance for the piece of
equipment, for example 10 to 20. The values entered indicate the desired range for the
calibration measurement and can be either an absolute or a percentage. By default, the
system reads these values as percentages.
Precision - Specify the number of decimal places to include for the test point data. If
this value is blank, then the system will use Precision from the Calibration tab for
Equipment.
Percentage - Select this check box if the test point data is a percentage.
Alert Tolerance - Specify the alert tolerance for the test point. If this value is blank, then
the system will use Precision from the Calibration tab for Equipment.
Increment - Specify the increment value used for the test point. If this value is blank,
then the system will use Precision from the Calibration tab for Equipment.
Device Range - Specify numeric values indicating the potential range for the device,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

977 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

such as 250 to 450. If this value is blank, then the system will use Precision from the
Calibration tab for Equipment.
Output Range - Specify numeric values indicating the potential range of the device
output, such as 200 to 500. If this value is blank, then the system will use Precision
from the Calibration tab for Equipment.
Process Tolerance - Specify the range of the process tolerance, such as 10 to 20. If
this value is blank, then the system will use Precision from the Calibration tab for
Equipment.
Process Range - Specify the range of the process, such as 150 to 600. If this value is
blank, then the system will use Precision from the Calibration tab for Equipment.
Comments - Enter comments for the test point.
5. Click Submit.

• If you delete a test point, the system does not update the sequence numbers of other
test points.
• To modify an existing test point, select the test point to modify, and then edit fields as
necessary. You can update Test Point, Device Tolerance, and Comments for existing
test points. You cannot update Sequence.
• If you are defining test points for a category, click Update Equipment and Update
Equipment Configurations. The system copies the test points to all equipment records
within the category. Prior to copying the test points, the system deletes any test points
for this category from related equipment records.

Importing test point data
Test point data can be imported from existing equipment, categories, or work orders to save
time if test points are duplicated across similar instruments or calibration records.
Test points cannot be imported from or to more than one record simultaneously.
Test points can be imported to a work order from an asset, position, system, category record,
or work order. However, test points cannot be imported to an asset, position, system, or

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

978 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

category from a work order.
When copying test points from one work order to another work order, the system will not copy
the Device Reading, Deviation, or test point Status. No "As Left" data will be copied.
If one or more imported test points already exist on the destination record, the system
displays a warning message and re-sequences the imported test points to avoid duplication.
You may then make any corrections if necessary.
Records that do not have any associated test points will not be available to import from.
Records whose organization is not associated to the user will not be available to import from.
When importing from a work order to a work order, records whose organization does not
match the destination work order organization will not be available to import from.
Categories, assets, positions, systems, and work orders whose Precision is less than the
Precision of the destination record will not be available to import test points from Precision.
When importing test points to a work order from a category or equipment, the system always
converts any test point tolerances defined as Percentage to absolute values for display on
the Calibration page of the Work Orders form. This conversion is not necessary when
importing test points from another work order since the system will have already converted
the work order test point tolerances to absolute values.
1. Select one of these options:
• Equipment > Setup > Categories
• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
• Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations
2. Select the category, equipment, or equipment configuration, and then select the Test
Points tab.
You can also import test point data on the Calibration tab of the Work Orders
screen.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

979 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Actions and then click Import Test Points.
4. Specify whether the test point data is being imported from an asset, category, position,
or system, and then select the specific asset, category, position, or system.
5. Specify whether to use equipment from the WO Header or Test Point(s). This option is
only available when importing from one work order to another.
6. Select the test points to import.
7. Click Import Test Points.

Entering calibration results
Enter calibration results for work orders to report calibration data for the actual work
performed while calibrating a piece of equipment.
Test point data for equipment is copied to the Calibration tab of the Work Orders form for
any calibration work order once it is released. See Defining calibration test point data.
If you need to enter calibration results for a work order that you did not specify as being a
calibration work order, you must manually enter the test point data.
If a work order is a multiple equipment work order, you can also enter calibration test points
and data for child equipment on the work order.
The calibration results you enter determine the Calibration Status of the work order, as well
as the Status for each test point.
Generate a calibration record report for a work order as necessary before beginning
the calibration process.
To enter calibration results:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to enter calibration results, and then click the
Calibration tab.
Calibration Status is automatically populated with the status of the calibration and
S.O.P., P&ID No., Precision, Increment, P&ID Drawing, and Alert Tolerance based
on the information entered on the Calibration tab of the equipment record listed on the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

980 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

work order. Last Calibrated is automatically populated with the completed date for the
last calibration work order for the piece of equipment and Calibration Interval with the
interval specified on the PM work order.
3. Select the test point for which to enter calibration results. If the calibration work order is
released, Equipment, Sequence, Equipment Org., Test Point, and the unit of
measure for the test point are automatically populated based on the test point data
entered for the equipment listed on the work order.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Choose one of the following options if the work order is a multiple
equipment work order:

Option

Description

All Equipment

Specify All Equipment to create the test point for each
of the Related Work Orders associated with all of
the equipment records on the Calibration tab of the
Work Orders form.
If the work order is a multiple equipment type
work order and you click Add Test Point without
selecting an existing test point, Equipment is
automatically populated with All Equipment. If you
select an existing test point and then click Add Test
Point on a multiple equipment work order,
Equipment, Equipment Description, Equipment
Org., Related Work Order, Test Point UOM,
Standard UOM, and Output UOM are automatically
populated from the selected record.
If All Equipment is selected for Equipment, then
Device Tolerance, Device Reading, and Status are
protected, because you cannot distribute these
values to all equipment on the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

981 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

WO Header Equipment

Specify WO Header Equipment to create the test
point for each equipment record on the Calibration
tab of the Work Order on the work order header.

Equipment

Specify a specific Equipment record to create the test
point for the Related Work Order associated with the
selected Equipment.
See Adding equipment to work orders to split work
order costs.

Not Applicable - Select to indicate the test point is no longer applicable for the
calibration process.
Test Point - Specify the test point value for the calibration, and then enter the unit of
measure for the test point in the adjacent field.
Standard - Specify the standard value for the calibration, and then enter the unit of
measure for the standard in the adjacent field.
5. Specify the following in the As Found section of the form to enter the initial calibration
results:
Device Tolerance - Specify the range of the device tolerance.
Output - Specify the value of the test point output, and then enter the output’s unit of
measure in the adjacent field.
Device Reading - Specify the reading of the device. Standard is subtracted from the
Device Reading to determine the Deviation. Status is populated based on the
calibration results you enter.
6. Specify the following in the As Left section of the form if re-calibration is required:
Click Copy to As Left to copy the data from the As Found section to the As
Left section, and then modify the fields as necessary.
Specify the calibration Standard, Output, Device Tolerance, and Device Reading.
Standard is subtracted from the Device Reading to determine the Deviation. Status is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

982 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

populated based on the calibration results you enter.
7. Click Submit.

• To add a new test point, click Add Test Point. Enter data as necessary, and then
click Submit.
• If you delete a test point for which the test point Equipment is associated with a
MEC work order, the test point is removed from the Related Work Order.
• The work order’s calibration status is calculated based on the status of each test
point. For multiple equipment work orders, the calibration status of the parent work
order considers the test points for all of its related work orders.
• To run a calibration record report, click Run Calibration Report.

Viewing loop instruments for a work order
View loop instruments for a work order containing an object that is a loop to access a list of all
the instruments within the loop.
The system activates View Loop Instruments if the work order contains a loop. See
Understanding calibration loops.
To view loop instruments for a work order:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the calibration work order for which to view a loop, and then click the Calibration
tab.
3. Click View Loop Instruments.
4. View the loop instrument information.
If the work order for which you are viewing loop instruments is a multiple
equipment work order, then the system displays the loop instruments associated with
the selected test point Equipment, because more than one loop can be calibrated on a
multiple equipment work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

983 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Close.

Defining standards used for calibration
Define the specific piece of equipment used as a standard for the selected work order. The
Standards Used popup displays a list of parts that serve as potential parts from which to
specify the piece of equipment and/or lot used for the calibration.
To define standards used for calibration:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to define standards used during calibration, and then
click the Calibration tab.
3. Click Standards Used.
The Standards Used popup automatically displays parts for which you specified
Calibration Standard and to which you associated the work order’s equipment record on
the Parts Associated tab of the Assets, Positions, or Systems form.
See these references:
• Creating parts
• Associating parts
If the work order for which you are defining standards used is a multiple
equipment work order, then the system displays the parts used as calibration
standards associated with the selected test point equipment record.
4. Select the part for which to specify equipment and/or lot information. The system
automatically populates Part and Part Org.
5. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment record used for calibration.
The system displays equipment records to which you associated the selected
part via the Part field on the Record View tab of the Assets, Positions, or Systems
form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

984 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

See these references:
• Defining assets
• Defining positions
• Defining systems
If the work order for which you are defining standards used is a multiple equipment
work order, you can associate a test point with a specific equipment or with all
equipment on the work order.
Lot - Specify the lot of the part record.
6. Click Submit.
To add a standard, click Add Standard. Enter the Part, Equipment, and Lot, and
then click Submit.

Viewing calibration results
To view calibration results:
1. Select Work > Calibration Results.
2. View the calibration information.

Project management
Define special projects in addition to the work defined in the work management and asset
management modules. Examples of special projects are painting a room or building a new
production line. Break large projects down into more manageable sub-projects, and assign
individual work orders to each step. You can also set up budget requirements and monitor
costs for projects. Change work orders and purchase orders against projects. The system
displays actual costs, committed costs, and planned costs, eliminating guesswork.

Defining initial project information
Define initial project information before using the project management module.

Defining budget codes for projects

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

985 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define budget codes to be associated with projects. Designate default budget codes.
The system only displays Cost Area, Cost Center, and Code of Accounts if the
installation parameter PROJTRCK is ON. Cost Area, Cost Center, and Code of Accounts
are linked to entities for which you must define user codes. Contact your system administrator
for more information.
To define budget codes for projects:
1. Select Work > Projects > Project Budgets.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Project Budget - Enter a unique code identifying the budget, and then enter a
description of the budget in the adjacent field.
Class - Enter the class of the budget. The system automatically populates Class Org.
Cost Area - Select the cost area of the budget.
Default - Select if the budget is a default budget.
You can link default budgets to projects on the Project Budgets form. See
Linking default budget codes with projects.
Cost Center - Select the cost center of the budget.
Code of Accounts - Select the code of accounts for the budget.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining shutdown codes
Define shutdown codes, and then define equipment to service during shutdowns. Your
organization might have equipment that can only be serviced when it is completely out of
service or shut down. A shutdown can represent either a part of the facility or a type of
shutdown to be performed.
To define shutdown codes:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

986 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Projects > Shutdowns.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Enter the organization to which the shutdown belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Shutdown - Enter a unique code identifying the shutdown, and then enter a description
of the shutdown in the adjacent field.
Class - Enter the class of the shutdown. The system automatically populates Class
Org.
4. Click Save Record.

Associating standard work orders, equipment, and projects with
shutdown codes
Associate standard work orders, specific equipment, and project budgets with the shutdown
identification codes. For example, create a shutdown identification code for each station, and
then associate each piece of equipment in the station with that identification code.
You cannot associate standard work order templates with shutdown codes.
To associate standard work orders, equipment, and projects with shutdown codes:
1. Select Work > Projects > Shutdowns.
2. Select the shutdown code with which to associate a standard work order and
equipment, and then click the Equipment tab.
3. Click Add Equipment.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment to associate with the shutdown code. The system
automatically populates Equipment Org.and Equipment Type.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order describing the work to be performed
when the shutdown occurs.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

987 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Project Budget - Specify the budget code to be referenced on the shutdown work
order.
5. Click Submit.

Defining parent and child projects
Define parent projects and create as many child projects as needed. Define parent projects
and budget codes before defining child projects. For example, if the parent project is building
a new road, set up a project for the road construction, and then define individual steps for
each child project, such as surveys, excavation, infrastructure, paving, seal coating, and
painting.
For each project you create, include a budget amount. Once the project is approved, the
system saves the budget amount. Update the amount later if the budget changes. The system
retains the original value and stores revision information against that amount. Any changes to
labor and material estimates for child projects are validated against the parent project budget.
If estimates exceed the set budget, the system displays a warning message.

Defining project basics
Define project basics by entering basic project information. Define parent projects and budget
codes before defining child projects. When you specify a parent project for a child project, the
budget records of the parent project are inserted on the child project.
Estimate to Complete indicates the calculated sum of the values displayed for
Estimate to Complete for each budget entered on the Budgets page of the Projects form.
Estimate to Complete is automatically updated any time Estimate to Complete is updated
manually or automatically for any budget on the Budgets page.
1. Select Work > Projects > Projects.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this Project Details information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the project belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Project - Specify a unique code identifying the project, and then enter a description of

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

988 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the project in the adjacent field.
Coordinator - Specify the employee code of the project coordinator.
Parent Project - Specify a parent project if applicable.
You can only specify a parent project while defining a new project. Once the
project is saved, you are not allowed to add a parent project.
Estimated Start Date - Specify the intended starting date for the project.
Estimated End Date - Specify the intended ending date for the project.
Shutdown - Specify a shutdown identification code to associate with the project if the
project requires the shutdown of equipment.
Status - Specify the status of the project.
All projects start with a Status of Awaiting Approval.
Actual Start Date - Specify the actual starting date for the project.
Actual End Date - Specify the actual ending date for the project.
Class - Specify the class of the project.
Capital Planning Request, Capital Planning Request Org., Project WOs,
and Shutdown WOs Created are automatically populated for projects created on the
Capital Planning Requests form.
Tool Cost - Specify the estimated tool usage costs.
4. Specify this Budget Details information:
Current Budget - Specify the total budget amount for the project. Budgets of child
projects do not roll up to the budget of the parent project. The estimated cost of
completing the project is displayed in Estimate to Complete and the total budget for
the project is approved in Budget Approved.
Budget Date - Specify the date the budget was established.
You must enter a Budget Date that is before or equal to the current date.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

989 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Labor - Specify the estimated internal labor costs.
Services - Specify the estimated services costs.
Hired Labor - Specify the estimated hired external labor costs.
Stock Items - Specify the estimated stock material costs.
Direct Purchases - Specify the estimated amount of money needed to purchase
materials not normally stocked in house.
5. Optionally, click the CU Design Project check box to indicate this project is used for the
compatible units estimation process.
If it is designated for the compatible units estimation process, specify this CU Design
Project Details information:
CU Design Type - Select to define this project as compatible unit design type Non-WO
Associated, Replicable Design, or WO Associated.
Department - Specify the department of the CU design or compatible unit.
6. Click Save Record.
Depending on your system configuration, an electronic signature may be
required to create a work order. The eSignature pop-up window is displayed once
regardless of the number of shutdown work orders created.
7. Optionally, click Create Shutdown WOs to generate shutdown work orders associated
with a project.
8. Optionally, click Close WOs to close open work orders associated with a project.
9. Optionally, click Detach WOs to detach detachable work orders associated with a
project.

Associating predefined budget codes with projects
Associate one or more budget codes with each defined project. Also, define the budget
amount for the project. Define child projects, or sub-projects, only after finishing this
procedure. Child projects share the budget codes of the parent project.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

990 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If you do not associate the budget of a shutdown work order with the project, the
system does not create the shutdown work order when you click Create Shutdown WOs on
the Projects form. See Generating shutdown work orders.
The system monitors the expenditures for parts and labor for the project and any child
projects, and it breaks the budget amount of the main project down into a budget amount for
each subproject. It validates these expenditures against the budget amount. Regard the
budget values defined here as sub-budget values, in comparison with the budgets defined on
the Projects form. After the project is complete, the system freezes all associated budget
items.
You do not need to create project budget codes for child projects.
To associate predefined budget codes with projects:
1. Select Work > Projects > Projects.
2. Select the project for which to associate budget codes, and then click the Budgets tab.
3. Click Add Budget.
4. Specify this information:
Budget - Enter a budget code for the project. The system automatically populates the
budget description, Class, Class Org., Cost Area, Cost Center, and Code of
Accounts from the project budget code.
Budgeted Amount - Enter the total budgeted amount for this project.

• You can associate additional budget codes with a project throughout the project
life cycle; however, you cannot delete codes after assigning them to a work order.
• You may change Budgeted Amount at any time.
Estimate to Complete - Enter the estimated expenditures remaining for this
project for the selected budget.

• When creating an initial budget for the selected budget code, the system

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

991 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

automatically populates Estimate to Complete with the value entered in
Budgeted Amount. If applicable, the system automatically subtracts the value of
any planned, on order, actual, and invoice difference costs that may be incurred
against this project/budget from the value entered in Budgeted Amount, and then
populates Estimate to Complete with the calculated value. Modify the value of
Estimate to Complete as necessary.
• Additionally, the system calculates the sum of all the values entered for Estimate
to Complete for each budget on the Budgets page of the Projects form and then
automatically populates Estimate to Complete on the project record with this
value. See Defining project basics.
5. Click Submit.

Linking default budget codes with projects
Link default budget codes with a project to retrieve all budget codes for which Default is
selected on the Project Budget Codes form.
You can define budget codes as default codes on the Project Budget Codes form.
1. Select Work > Projects > Projects.
2. Select the project for which to associate default budget codes, and then click the
Budgets tab.
3. Click Add Default Budgets. All budget codes flagged as default are linked to this
project.

Granting purchasing authorization permissions for projects
Authorize users to create requisitions and/or purchase orders for a specific project. If you add
any authorized users to a project, no other users can create requisitions and/or purchase
orders for the project.
If you do not add any authorized users to a project, any user with the appropriate group-level
permissions can create requisitions and purchase orders for the project.
Select Approver to enable a user to approve purchase requisitions and purchase orders for
the project. A user can only approve purchase requisitions and purchase orders for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

992 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

project if you selected Approver for the user and if the user has the proper authorizations set
on the Status Change Authorizations form. If you specify any authorized users as
approvers for a project, no other users can approve requisitions and/or purchase orders for
the project.
If you add authorized users to the project but do not select Approver for any of them, no
users will be allowed to approve purchase requisitions or purchase orders for the project.
Additionally, if the user has been granted proper authorization on the Status Change
Authorizations form, selecting Approver for a user also enables them to create, update, and
delete budget code information on the Budgets tab of the Projects form.
Click Add Buyers to retrieve a list of all users set up as buyers for the organization of the
project. All users set up as buyers are retrieved, each buyer is added to the User
Authorization list, and Approver is automatically selected for each user. You can clear
Approver for each user as necessary.
1. Select Work > Projects Projects.
2. Select the project for which to add authorized users, and then click the User
Authorization tab.
3. Click Add User.
4. Specify this information:
User - Specify the user to add as an authorized user for the project.
Approver - Select to indicate that the authorized user can approve purchase
requisitions and purchase orders for the project.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing project hierarchy
View all child projects, or sub-projects, related to a parent project.
To view project hierarchy:
1. Select Work > Projects.
2. Select the project for which to view hierarchy, and then click the Sub-projects tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

993 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. View the sub-projects related to the project.

Creating project work orders
Create project work orders by creating new work orders in the work management module or
by associating work orders created previously with a project.

Creating new project work orders
After defining the project and any sub-projects, use the Work Orders form to create the
appropriate work orders. To link the work order to a specific project, enter a project budget on
the work order.
To create new project work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Click New Record.
3. Enter information into the fields as necessary. See Creating regular work orders.
4. Specify this information:
Project-Budget - Specify the project and budget of the work order.
Department - Specify the department of the work order.
5. Click Save Record.

Generating shutdown work orders
Generate shutdown work orders, directly from the Project form, if the nature of your project
requires that you take equipment out of service. A shutdown work order is no different than
any other work order with the exception that you create shutdown work orders in the Project
form and specify a shutdown identification code for the project.
After creating shutdown work orders, you can view them in the List View tab of the Work
Order form. Newly created shutdown work orders contain a system status of Released or the
equivalent to that system status based on your system configuration.
The project status must be approved and a shutdown identification code must be

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

994 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

specified in Shutdown to create shutdown work orders. See Defining shutdown codes.
Before creating a shutdown work order, you must associate the budget code of a shutdown
work order with the project on the Budgets tab of the Project form. See Associating
predefined budget codes with projects.
1. Select Work > Projects > Projects.
2. Select the project for which to generate shutdown work orders, and then click the
Record View tab.
3. Click Create Shutdown WOs.
You may only create shutdown work orders for a project once. If Shutdown WOs is
any number other than 0, you will not be allowed to create shutdown work orders.

Viewing all work orders associated with projects
View all work orders related to projects. If necessary, detach work orders from a project.
1. Select Work > Projects > Projects.
2. Select the project for which to view associated work orders, and then click the Work
Orders tab.
3. View the work orders associated with the project.
Click Detach WOs to detach work orders from the project. The system only detaches
those work orders that have no costs or transactions associated with them. Before detaching
the work orders, the system verifies that you want to detach all detachable work orders. Click
Yes to detach all work orders that have no costs or transactions associated with them from
the project.

Closing work orders associated with projects
Close open work orders associated with a project. The system does not close those work
orders that have a system status of C, or Closed. Before closing the open work orders, the
system verifies that you want to close all open work orders. Click Yes to close all open work
orders.
To close work orders associated with projects:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

995 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Projects > Projects.
2. Select the project for which to close associated work orders, and then click the Record
View tab.
3. Click Close WOs.

Detaching and deleting work orders associated with projects
Detach work orders from a project or delete the work orders completely.
The system only detaches those work orders that have no costs or transactions associated
with them. Before detaching the work orders, the system verifies that you want to detach all
detachable work orders. Click Yes to detach all work orders that have no costs or transactions
associated with them from the project.
The system only deletes those work orders that are deletable on the Work Orders form.
Before deleting the work orders, the system verifies that you want to delete all deletable work
orders. Click Yes to delete all deletable work orders associated with the project.
1. Select Work > Projects > Projects.
2. Select the project for which to detach or delete associated work orders, and then click
the Record View tab.
3. Choose one of the following options:
• Click Detach WOs.
• Click Delete WOs.

Viewing project purchase orders
View purchase orders associated with a specific project. Information in the list includes the
purchase order number, status, creation date, supplier, store, purchase order type, total cost,
and outstanding balance.
Purchase order headers are not directly associated with projects because a single purchase
order may include parts and/or services for several projects. However, an individual order line
of a purchase order can be project-specific. The system automatically associates an order
line, both for parts or services, with a project when the order line links to a work order activity

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

996 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

that is part of a project. When a purchase order has at least one order line associated with a
project, the system displays the purchase order in the project’s list. See Creating and revising
purchase orders.
1. Select Work > Projects > Projects.
2. Select the project for which to view associated purchase orders, and then click the
Purchase Orders tab.
3. View the project purchase order information.

Viewing detailed project cost summaries
View existing costs for a Project. The system includes all child projects associated with a
parent project.
The Costs page summarizes and compares estimated, planned, actual, and total costs for
projects. It also summarizes and compares the cost of materials on order, the budget amount
remaining, and the difference between the actual cost of each cost category and the invoice
cost for each project.
To view detailed project cost summaries:
1. Select Work > Projects Projects.
2. Select the project for which to view associated costs, and then click the Costs tab.
3. View the costs associated with the project.

Printing the project summary chart
Print the project summary chart report to view costs associated with a specific project.
1. Select Work > Projects > Projects.
2. Select the project for which to print the project summary chart, and then click the
Project Summary Chart tab.
3. View the chart.

Creating campaigns

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

997 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

A campaign is a list of jobs that may be performed on a given list of equipment as necessary
to complete work. Campaigns are comprised of two types of events:

Type

Description

Survey

Maintenance personnel checks equipment specified on the
work order to see if issue(s) exist.

Job

Work order to correct issue(s) found.

If equipment passes the survey, work on the equipment is unnecessary.
If equipment fails the survey, work on the equipment is necessary. All survey results are
recorded on the Equipment page of the Campaigns form, or the Survey Equipment page of
the Work Orders form.
A campaign can have multiple jobs listed to complete work on necessary equipment, however
only one survey is allowed per campaign.
To create campaigns:
1. Select Work > Projects > Campaigns.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the campaign.
Campaign - Specify the unique, identifying code for the campaign, and then enter a
description in the adjacent field.
Status - Select the status of the campaign.
Class - Specify the class of the campaign.
Type - Specify the type for the campaign.
Survey Required - Select to require a survey campaign event to check all specified

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

998 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equipment for necessary repairs.
Campaign Manager - Specify a manager for the campaign.
Project-Budget - Specify both the project and budget to associate to this campaign.
4. Click Save Record.

Adding events to campaigns
A campaign event is either a survey of equipment on the specified campaign to check for
equipment repairs needed, or a job to perform to repair equipment. If a piece of equipment
passes the survey event, work is not necessary. If a piece of equipment fails the survey, a job
event is performed to repair the equipment. A campaign can have only one survey event, but
several job events.
Add, change, or delete campaign events as necessary.
To add events to campaigns:
1. Select Work > Projects > Campaigns.
2. Select a campaign, and then click the Campaign Events tab.
3. Click Add Campaign Event.
4. Specify this information:
Campaign Event - Enter the order in which this campaign event will occur.
Project-Budget - Enter both the project and budget to associate to this campaign
event.
Standard WO - Enter the standard work order to associate to this campaign event.
Assigned To - Enter the person responsible for the work order.
Assigned By - Enter the supervisor who assigned the work order.
Requested By - Enter the person who requested the work.
Survey - Select to mark this campaign event as an equipment survey type.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

999 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Production Priority - Enter the priority for the production. The system automatically
populates Production Priority Desc.
Req. Start Date Buff. (Days) - Enter the number of days needed prior to the starting
date for the work order.
Req. End Date Buff. (Days) - Enter the number of days needed after the ending date
for the work order.
Downtime (Hours) - Enter the number of hours that the equipment was out of operation
due to failure.
WO Description - Enter a description of the work to be performed for the campaign
event.
WO Type - Select the type for the work order.
Priority - Enter the priority of the work order for the campaign event.
WO Class - Enter the work order class for the campaign event. The system
automatically populates WO Class Org.
Duration - Enter a duration (time) for the work order for the campaign event.
Problem Code - Enter the code to identify the type of problem.
Safety - Select if this campaign event requires special safety precautions.
Trade - Enter the trade required to perform the activity.
Task - Enter the task code for the activity.
Material List - Enter the material list code for the material list containing the parts
needed for the work order.
Estimated Hours - Enter the estimated number of hours required to complete the
activity.
People Required - Enter the number of people required to perform the activity.
Activity Duration - Enter a duration (time) for the activity for the campaigning event.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1000 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Managing equipment for campaigns
Manage equipment for campaigns on the Equipment page of the Campaigns form by
adding, editing, deleting, or marking equipment for a campaign. Mark equipment as passed,
failed, or not evaluated.
In addition to managing equipment on the Equipment page of the Campaigns form, drive the
campaign process by creating campaign work orders, generating survey work orders, or
clearing survey work orders.

Adding equipment to campaigns
To add equipment to campaigns:
1. Select Work > Projects > Campaigns.
2. Select a campaign for which to add equipment, and then click the Equipment tab.
3. Click Select Equipment.
4. Select the equipment to add to a campaign, and then click OK.

• To generate survey work orders for equipment, select the equipment, click Select, and
then click Generate Survey WO.
• To generate work orders for equipment, select the equipment, click Select, and then
click Generate WO(s).
• To clear survey work orders for equipment, select the equipment, click Select, and then
click Clear Survey WO.
• To clear errors, select the equipment, click Select, and then click Clear Error(s).

Marking equipment for campaigns
Mark equipment as having passed the survey work order, failed the survey work order, or not
evaluated on the survey work order.
Campaign Status must be Active before the system allows marking equipment for a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1001 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

campaign.
To mark equipment after survey work orders are completed for equipment on campaigns:
1. Select Work > Projects > Campaigns.
2. Select a campaign for which to mark equipment, and then click the Equipment tab.
3. Select the equipment to mark for a campaign after a survey work order, and then
choose one of the following options:

Option

Description

Mark as Passed

Click to mark equipment as passed.

Mark as Failed

Click to mark the equipment as failed.

Mark as Not Evaluated

Click to mark the equipment as not evaluated.

Generating work orders for campaigns
Generate regular, multi-equipment, or survey type, campaign work orders from selected
equipment and campaign events on the Equipment page of the Campaigns form. See the
steps below to generate regular, multi-equipment, or survey type, campaign work orders.
To generate work orders or multiple equipment work orders for campaigns:
1. Select Work > Projects > Campaigns.
2. Select a campaign for which to generate a work order, and then click the Equipment
tab.
3. Select the equipment for which to generate a campaign work order, and then click
Generate Survey WO.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1002 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Campaign Event - Specify the campaign event for which to generate a work order. The
system automatically populates the campaign event description.
Create Multiple Equipment WO - Select to generate multiple equipment work orders
for the selected campaign event.
Include Campaign Comments - Select to include comments on the work order
generated for the campaign.
Include Campaign Documents - Select to include documents on the work order
generated for the campaign.
Equipment - Specify the equipment for which to perform work. The system
automatically populates the equipment description and Equip. Org.
Status - Select the status of the work order generated for the campaign.
Sched. Start Date - Specify a scheduled start date for the work to be performed.
Sched. End Date - Specify a scheduled end date for the work to be performed.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing work orders for campaigns
View the list of existing work orders for a specific campaign.
To view work orders for campaigns:
1. Select Work > Projects > Campaigns.
2. Select the campaign for which to view work orders, and then click the Work Orders tab.
3. View the work orders.

Copying campaigns
Copy child records of campaigns and campaign header information to a new campaign.
To copy campaign records to new campaigns:
1. Select Work > Projects > Campaigns.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1003 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the campaign for which to copy, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Click Copy Campaign.
4. Specify this information:
New Campaign - Specify a unique code identifying the new campaign, and then enter a
description for the new campaign in the adjacent field.
Custom Field Value - Select to copy the custom field values to the new campaign.
User Defined Fields - Select to copy the user defined fields to the new campaign.
Campaign Events - Select to copy the campaign events to the new campaign.
Equipment - Select to copy the equipment to the new campaign.
Comments - Select to copy the comments to the new campaign.
Documents - Select to copy the documents to the new campaign.
5. Click Submit.

Designing capital projects with compatible units libraries
Design capital projects using compatible units libraries as standard templates that describe
combinations of labor, parts and materials, tools, and external services required for the
completion of routine work according to different scenarios. After defining the standards and
templates to complete the work using various methods, estimate the project costs.

Defining compatible units libraries
Define compatible unit "templates" to help generate estimated costs for capital construction
design projects. These projects are routine and repetitive work performed by your
organization, and primarily capital expenditures. A compatible unit is the "building block" of
the design estimation process and is defined by the labor, parts, tools, and external services
required to complete the construction project, as well as the standard rates for each
component of the job.
Compatible units are made up of various combinations of labor, materials, tools and external
services.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1004 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The standard rates defined for the compatible units library record on this screen contribute to
the total cost of the estimates for these routine, capital jobs.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Library > .
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Compatible Unit - Specify a unique code identifying the compatible units record, and
then specify a description of the record in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization to which the compatible unit library record will
belong.
4. Specify this Compatible Units Library Details information:
Status - Select the default status for this compatible units library record in the system.
Hierarchical Level - Select the hierarchical level of the compatible unit in the design
project.
Activity Type - Select the type of activity the compatible unit represents to describe the
action or work being performed.
Department - Optionally, specify the department to which the compatible unit record will
belong.
Unit of Measure - Specify the unit by which to measure the compatible units library
record.
Accounting Code - Optionally, specify the accounting code to assign to this compatible
units library record in the system.
Fixed Asset Code - Specify the code of the capitalized asset in your financial
accounting system or organization.
Standard Sheet - Specify the spec or drawing standard sheet describing the rules,
conditions, or blueprints for how the work should be completed.
5. Optionally, click the Include as Total Qty. check box.
6. Optionally, in the Equipment Details information section, specify the Equipment Class

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1005 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

to which the equipment of the capital request belongs.
7. Optionally, specify this Usage Details information:
Available for Work Points - Select this check box if the work to be performed for this
library record is performed at a specific point location, like the installation of a sign or
pole.
Available for Span Only - Select this check box if the work to be performed for this
library record is performed over a linear distance or spans a specific length of area, like
digging a trench or installing underground cables.
Available for Cost Only - Select this check box if the work to be performed is only used
to allocate costs or determine the actual costs of the estimate.
Inherit Parent Details - Select this check box if this compatible units library record will
inherit any parent record details if it is later designated as a child CU record.
8. Click Save Record.

Associating labor with compatible units libraries
Define the labor required to complete the work for a compatible unit library record. Include the
standard rate for the labor which will contribute to the total cost of various estimates.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Library > .
2. Select the compatible units library record for which to add labor, and then click the
Labor tab.
3. Click Add Labor.
4. Specify this information:
Trade - Specify the type of employees required to complete the labor.
Standard Crew - Optionally, specify the standard crew to use when performing
estimation.
Hours Required - Specify the number of hours required to complete the labor.
Rate Override - Optionally, specify a monetary rate to use as an override for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1006 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

standard cost of the labor based on the trade rate or department rate.
Action Type - Select Abandon, Install, Remove, or Transfer as the type of action the
labor would be considered when the compatible units library record is associated with a
CU estimate.
5. Optionally, select one or more labor adjustments to be considered when the compatible
units library record is associated with a CU estimate. These adjustment factors are
considered when calculating costs associated with labor when performing compatible
units cost estimation.
6. Click Submit.

Associating parts with compatible units libraries
Associate parts with compatible units library records. The parts added here define which parts
are required to complete a job for this compatible units library record.
View all parts associated with this compatible units library record. Edit a part description if the
part has not been used in other parts of the system.
The Edit Parts Description pop-up window is only available for parts with N class
designation. These are new parts created on the selected screen; parts which can have their
description changed. However, when the description is changed the part is no longer
accessible in the Edit Parts Description pop-up for editing.
1. Select Work > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Library.
2. Select the compatible units record for which to add parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Select the part to add to the compatible units library record.
Quantity - Specify the quantity of the part to add.
Price Override - Optionally, specify a monetary rate to use as an override for the
standard cost of the part.
Action Type - Select Abandon, Install, Remove, or Transfer as the type of the action

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1007 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

which the part would be considered for when the compatible units library record is
associate with a CU estimate.
Store - Optionally, specify the store associated with the part.
5. Optionally, click Create Part to define a part for the compatible units library record.
Create a part when the part you need to add is not already defined in the system.
Part - A unique identifying code for the part is automatically populated. In the adjacent
field, specify a description for the part.
Part Org. - Specify the organization for the part.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the part.
Quantity - Specify the quantity of the part to add.
Price Override - Specify a monetary rate to use as an override for the standard cost of
the part.
Action Type - Select Abandon, Install, Remove, or Transfer as the type of the action
the part performs.
Store - Optionally, specify the store associated with the part.
6. Optionally, select the Perform Reservation check box to indicate a reservation should
be made for this part when it is associated with a CU estimate and work order activities
are generated for the estimate.
7. Optionally, select one or more materials adjustments for consideration when the
compatible units library record is associated with a CU estimate. These adjustment
factors are considered when calculating costs associated with materials when
performing compatible units cost estimation.
8. Click Submit.
9. Optionally, to edit a part description, click Edit Parts Description. Specify the new part
description, and then click Submit.

Associating tools with compatible units libraries
Associate tools with compatible unit library records. The tools added here define which tools

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1008 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

are required to complete a job for this compatible units library record.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Library.
2. Select the compatible units record for which to add tools, and then click the Tools tab.
3. Click Add Tool.
4. Specify this information:
Tool - Optionally, select the tool to add to the compatible units record as a required tool
to complete the work.
Hours Required - Specify the number of hours the tool is required to complete the
work.
Rate Override - Optionally, specify a monetary rate to use as an override for the
standard cost of the tool.
Action Type - Select Abandon, Install, Remove, or Transfer as the type of action for
which the tool would be considered when the compatible units library record is
associated with a CU estimate.
5. Optionally, select one or more tools adjustments to be considered when the compatible
units library record is associated with a CU estimate. These adjustment factors are
considered when calculating costs associated with tools when performing compatible
units cost estimation.
6. Click Submit.

Associating services with compatible units libraries
Add contracted labor when standard crews and employees cannot fulfill the labor
requirements for compatible units design projects.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units.
2. Select the compatible unit record for which to associate services, and then click the
Services tab.
3. Click Add Service.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1009 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Service Code - Specify the service code of the external labor to add to this compatible
unit library record.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the service code. This is the external supplier.
5. Click Submit.

Associating child CU records with compatible units libraries
Associate child CU records with compatible units libraries header records.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Library.
2. Select the compatible units library record for which to add child records, and then click
the Child CUs tab.
3. Click Add Child CU.
4. Specify this Child CU Details information:
Child CU - Specify the child CU record to add to this compatible units libraries record.
Accounting Code - Specify the accounting code or type of transaction for this child CU
record.
Fixed Asset Code - Specify the code of the capitalized asset in the financial accounting
system or CU child organization.
Activity Type - Select the type of activity the child CU record represents to describe the
action or work being performed.
Action Type - Select Abandon, Install, Remove, or Transfer as the type of action the
child CU would be considered for when the compatible units library record is associated
with a CU estimate.
Quantity - Specify the number of the selected child CU units to associate to the
compatible units library record.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1010 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Viewing when and where a compatible units record has been used
View a list of all compatible units library records to which the header record is associated on
the child CUs tab of the Compatible Units Library screen.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Library.
2. Select the compatible units library record for which to view usage, and then click the
Where Used tab.
3. To view an associated record, click Go to Selection. You will be redirected to the
Record View tab of the Compatible Units Library screen for the selected record.
4. View the associated records.

Defining overhead for compatible units
Define overhead costs to apply to labor, parts, tools, or service lines to include when
estimating CU costs.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Overhead Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the overhead code belongs.
Overhead Code - Specify a unique code identifying the overhead code, and then enter
a description of the code in the adjacent field.
Apply To - Select to apply this overhead to the estimate for labor, parts in stock, nonstock parts, tools, or services.
Overhead Factor - Optionally, select the factor by which to multiply the overhead cost.
Overhead Type - Select the type of overhead this code represents. For example, if the
overhead represents utility costs, specify this as a utility type overhead.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to prevent the overhead code from
displaying in lookups across the system.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1011 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Save.

Defining accounting details for compatible units
Define accounting codes to categorize financial transactions associated with compatible units
when reporting financial accounting information. Accounting codes defined on this screen will
be available in lookups for the Accounting Code field on the compatible units library record
view and the Work Points tab for CU Estimates screen. Only accounting asset codes listed on
this screen are valid for compatible units functionality.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Accounting Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Accounting Code - Specify a unique code identifying the accounting code record, and
then specify a description in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization of the accounting code.
4. Specify this Accounting Code Details information:
Regulatory Account - Specify the regulatory account to associate with this accounting
code for financial reporting if required by an external regulating organization like the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
CapEx - Optionally, select this check box to indicate this accounting code is associated
to at least one fixed asset for financial reporting purposes.
Install GL - Optionally, specify the general ledger accounting code associated with the
installation of an asset. This code is used to organize transactions when financial
statements are prepared.
Remove GL - Optionally, specify the general ledger accounting code associated with
the removal of an asset. This code is used to organize transactions when financial
statements are prepared.
O & M GL - Optionally, specify the general ledger accounting code associated with the
operation and maintenance of an asset. This code is used to organize transactions
when financial statements are prepared.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1012 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Salvage GL - Optionally, specify the general ledger accounting code associated with
the residual value of an asset no longer in use. This code is used to organize
transactions when financial statements are prepared.
5. Select the Out of Service check box to indicate the accounting code should not display
in compatible units accounting codes lookups across the system.
6. Click Save Record.

Defining fixed assets for compatible units
Define fixed asset codes to categorize tangible assets like property and equipment associated
with compatible units for the purposes of reporting financial accounting information. Fixed
assets are assumed to have a useful life span that covers multiple financial reporting periods.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Fixed Asset Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this header information for the new record:
Fixed Asset Code - Specify a unique code or text identifying the fixed asset code you
are creating, and then specify a description in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization for the fixed asset.
4. Specify this Fixed Asset Code Details information:
Accounting Code - Optionally, specify a compatible unit accounting code if this fixed
asset code you are creating should be restricted for use only with this accounting code
for financial transaction recording purposes.
Leave this field blank to ensure the fixed asset code is available for all
accounting codes.
5. Select the Out of Service check box to indicate the fixed asset code should not display
in lookups across the system.
6. Click Save Record.

Creating cost estimates for compatible units

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1013 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create compatible units estimates records to perform, quote, and approve cost estimates for
capital construction projects.
The estimates you create and the associated costs are based upon the CU design projects.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > CU Estimates.
2. Click Add Record.
3. Specify this information:
CU Estimate - Specify a unique code identifying the CU estimate, and then specify a
description in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization to which the CU estimate will belong.
4. Specify this CU Estimate Details information:
CU Design Project - Specify the CU design project for which you are creating this
estimate.
Estimate Type - Specify whether the estimate type is As-Built, Cost Only, or Design.
Status - Specify the status of the estimate.
Department - Specify the department of the estimate.
Contribution
Total Contribution
5. Optionally, specif the materials, tools adjustments as needed.
6. Click Save Record.

Defining work points for compatible units estimates
Define and modify work points for compatible units estimates (CU estimates). Work points
refer to locations at which work is performed, and are used to describe work to be included as
part of a CU estimate.
Work points can refer to very specific locations where work will be performed like the
installation of a light pole, or can refer to spanned length distance.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1014 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > CU Estimates.
2. Select the compatible units estimate for which to define work points, and then click the
Work Points tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this Work Point Details information:
Work Point - Specify a unique code identifying the work point you are defining, and
then specify a description of it in the adjacent field.
Span - Optionally, select this check box to indicate the work point is a linear length or
distance. For example, if the work point is a trench, a trench spans a linear distance and
work may be performed along the length of the trench.
Span Length - If you indicated the work point is a linear length or distance, specify the
distance between the work point and the from work point in feet, kilometers, miles, or
meters. This helps determine the span distance or length of the work point.
From Work Point - Specify the point at which the linear distance of the work point
begins.
Vintage Year - Specify the year the capitalized asset was created if the work point is an
asset.
Fixed Asset Code - Specify the code if this work point is an external asset in a financial
accounting system outside of the EAM application.
Accounting Code - Specify the accounting code to assign to this work point in the
system.
Contribution Total - Optionally, specify the total amount of any contributions credited to
this work point for the CU estimate. The contributions listed will be deducted from the
total cost of the estimate.
Contribution % - Optionally, specify the percentage of costs for this work point to be
credited towards the total cost of the estimate.
You may enter either a contribution total or contribution % but not both.
Child CU Design WO - If this work point is associated with a child compatible units

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1015 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

design work order, specify it here.
Activity Type - Select the activity type which represents the action or work being
performed at this work point.
Supplier - Optionally, specify the supplier to provide parts and services specifically for
this work point.
5. Optionally, select one or more labor, materials, or tools adjustments to be considered
when this work point is associated with a CU estimate.
6. Click Submit.

Associating suppliers with compatible units estimates
Add suppliers to CU estimate header records to identify the suppliers who will provide parts
and services for the CU estimate.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > CU Estimates.
2. Select the compatible unit estimate for which to add suppliers, and then click the
Suppliers tab.
3. Click Add Supplier.
4. Specify this Supplier Details information:
Supplier - Select the supplier to associate with this CU estimate header record.
5. Click Submit.

Associating compatible units with compatible units estimates
Associate compatible units records with CU estimates to define the compatible units library
records to include in an estimate, which will help determine the total costs associated with an
estimate.
1. Select Work > Projects > CU Estimates.
2. Select the compatible unit estimate for which to associate compatible units, and then
click the Compatible Units tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1016 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Add Compatible Unit.
4. Specify this Compatible Unit Details information:
Sequence Number - Specify the sequential order in which this compatible unit (work)
occurs in the estimation process.
Work Point - Specify the work point to associate.
Compatible Unit - Specify the compatible unit to associate.
Quantity - Specify the quantity.
Accounting Code - Specify the accounting code to assign to this compatible unit in the
system.
Fixed Asset Code - Specify the code if this compatible unit is an external asset in a
financial accounting system outside of the EAM application.
Action Type - Select Abandon, Install, Remove, or Transfer as the type of action the
compatible unit would be considered when associated with this CU estimate.
Supplier - Optionally, specify the supplier to provide parts and services specifically for
this compatible unit.
5. Optionally, select one or more labor, materials, and tools adjustments to be considered
when the compatible units library record is associated with a CU estimate.
6. Click Submit.

Estimating costs of capital projects using compatible units
Use compatible units library records to estimate costs, view the detailed costs, quote
estimates, and approve estimates of costs for capital projects.

Performing cost estimates for compatible units
Choose a compatible units library record and generate a detailed summary of costs to
complete a capital design project. The summary of costs includes the estimated costs of the
labor, parts, tools, services, and all costs associated with the compatible units record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1017 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > CU Estimates.
2. Select the CU estimates record for which to perform estimation, and then click Perform
Estimation.
3. Navigate to the Costs tab to view the estimated costs.

Viewing detailed costs summaries for CU estimates
View detailed costs summary for a compatible units estimate or a FERC unit estimate. The
summaries include the sum of all costs.
Costs are divided into four categories for viewing:
• labor
• parts
• tools
• services
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > CU Estimates.
2. Select the CU estimate record for which to view detailed costs summary, and then click
one of the following tabs:

Option

Description

Costs tab

View the costs associated with the CU estimate.

FERC Unit Estimate tab

View the costs associated with the FERC unit
estimate.
Costs are shown as allocated by accounting code
and fixed asset codes for labor, parts, tools, and
services.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1018 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Quoting estimates for compatible units
Choose a compatible units library record with a status of Estimated, where cost details are
fully generated for a capital design project on the Costs tab, and then use the Quote
Estimate button on the Record View to generate a quote for customers.
This temporarily places the CU estimate into a Quoted status. This status is intended to
designate the period after which cost details for a CU estimate have been calculated and sent
to a customer for approval, however approval is still pending.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > CU Estimates.
2. Select the CU estimates record for which to quote an estimate, and then click Quote
Estimate. The status of this CU estimate is changed to Quoted.
All tabs on this CU estimate record are protected. No other updates to this
estimate are permitted in this status. Additionally, when a CU estimate is in Quoted
status, the status of the corresponding project is updated to CU Estimate Awaiting
Customer to indicate that customer approval is pending.
3. Once the estimated costs is approved by the customer, your next step is to approve the
estimate.

Approving cost estimates for compatible units
Choose a compatible units library record with a status of Estimated or Quoted and indicate
the estimate is approved.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > CU Estimates.
2. Select the CU estimates record for which to approve an estimate, and then click
Approve Estimate. The status of the corresponding project is updated to CU Estimate
Approved.
For CU estimates of type as Cost Only or As-Built, approval represents the final
status in the estimate lifecycle. No further status update can occur for estimates of this
type. For CU estimates of type as Design, an additional step may be performed and the
corresponding status change triggered (for the CU Design project only), through the
generation of work order activities for the work order specified as the CU Design WO on
the corresponding project record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1019 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Generating work order activities for CU estimates
Update a work order with activities generated from a CU estimate.
To generate work order activities from an estimate, the CU estimate must be type
Design and the status set to Approved.
1. Select Work > Projects > Compatible Units > CU Estimates.
2. Select the CU estimates record for which to generate work order activities, and then
click Generate WO Activities.
3. Work order activity generation is initiated as follows:
• any existing work order activities on the CU Design WO are deleted (provided
those activities do not have any associated transactions).
• a work order activity is created for each compatible units library record.
If multiple compatible units library records associated to a CU estimate
include the same value (cannot be null) for the optional Activity Type field, then
these compatible units will be aggregated as a single work order activity.
• records are populated on the Plan Labor and Plan Tools tabs of the Work Order
screen from the selected compatible units library labor, tools and services records.
Records are populated on the Parts tab, and one or more temporary material
list(s) is generated for the parts detailed on the Parts tab for the created work
order activities.
• for each selected child CU of the compatible units library record associated to the
CU estimate, the applicable labor, parts, tools and services records are
determined; and amounts/quantities for these will then be aggregated or rolled up
into the parent compatible units library record directly associated to the CU
estimate.

• Compatible units library services records generate hired labor records on the Plan
Labor tab (Plan labor records for which the Hired Labor check box is selected).
• Work order activities are currently restricted from including the same trade designated
as both hired labor, and as non-hired labor.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1020 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Fleet management
Manage fleet motor pools and the fleet billing process with the fleet management module.
Create vehicle tickets and view and modify fleet bills.
Fleet management references EMRS codes, previously called VMRS codes in the EAM
application.
The functionality has been expanded in EAM to include all equipment. With the application, V
for Vehicle is now E for Equipment. If you reference ATA codes, these codes still exist in the
EAM application, but are now stored on the EMRS Codes screen.
For more information on the American Trucking Association's Vehicle Maintenance Reporting
System (VMRS) and defining these codes in the application. See Defining EMRS codes.
To access Databridge functions within EAM, you must first set up Databridge menus
for user groups.

Understanding fleet management terms
The following terms will help you become familiar with the fleet management module’s unique
attributes:

Term

Vehicle

Definition

A specific type of asset used in the fleet management
module
Example: To classify a van in a fleet as a vehicle in the
system, select Vehicle on the Assets form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1021 of 2039

Motor Pool

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The motor pool is a grouping of vehicles that are either
rented to employees on a short-term basis (pool/loaner
vehicles) or are provided as a permanent means of
transportation for employees (assignment vehicles).
Example: The fleet management module will manage the
entire motor pool for a company, organization, and so forth.

Vehicle Ticket

Tracks the issuing and returning of fleet vehicles from the
motor pool
Example: Create a vehicle ticket to track a specific vehicle.
The ticket tracks when the vehicle is issued to and returned
by employees, as well as other attributes of the vehicles
such as mileage, parking location, and fuel levels.

Ticket Status

The status of a vehicle ticket changes as the ticket moves
through its life cycle. This list describes the status codes.
Issued - Indicates that the vehicle is currently issued to an
employee, and it is no longer an available asset in the
motor pool.
Returned - Indicates that the vehicle has been returned
from the employee and is back in the motor pool.
Completed - Indicates that the ticket is complete and ready
to be billed. The ticket is now available for issuing.

Vehicle Type

Three types of vehicles make up the motor pool. This list
describes the vehicle types.
Pool - Type of vehicle that is a temporary means of
transportation for employees. If an employee needs a car
from the pool for the day for a specific task, a pool vehicle
is issued from the motor pool.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1022 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Loaner - Type of vehicle that is a temporary means of
transportation for employees, particularly when their
assignment vehicles are not available. When an
employee’s company vehicle needs repairs, a loaner
vehicle is issued from the motor pool until the assignment
vehicle is repaired.
Assignment - Type of vehicle that is assigned to
employees on a long-term basis. Assignment vehicles are
often company vehicles that are issued to employees for
weeks, months, or years at a time.

Exception

Attaches additional fees to vehicle tickets for exceptional
conditions that occur to vehicles. Exception codes are
associated with vehicle tickets on the Exceptions page of
the Vehicle Ticket form.
Example: Associate an exception code that charges
customers an additional fee for low amounts of fuel in
returned vehicles with the vehicle ticket.

Adjustment

Adds credits and debits to previous bills. Adjustments are
reflected on the subsequent fleet bill. To correct a ticket that
was billed to an incorrect cost code, enter a new Cost
Code. Adjustments can be added to pool, loaner, and
assignment vehicles.
Example: If a fleet customer was overcharged for mileage
during the previous billing period, then provide a credit that
will reimburse the fleet customer on the next fleet bill.

Bill

Fleet bills are generated by the billing process and
correspond with each specific billing schedule. The
frequency at which bills are generated is determined by the
billing period (billing schedule). Fleet customers can also
view fleets bills.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1023 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: View a bill for a specific customer for a specific
billing period.

Period

Billing schedules that determine billing process. At the end
of the billing schedule, generate customer bills that
correspond with the billing schedule Period End Date.
Example: Choose to be billed weekly, monthly, quarterly,
and so forth.

Billing Code

Determines the normal fees that customers are billed for
various fleet billing categories. Together, billing codes and
markup codes, when associated with specific fleet
customers, determine the total rates for fleet billing
categories.
Example: Create a billing code for usage charges, and then
associate a rate with that billing code. Fleet customers are
typically billed that amount for usage charges.

Markup Code

Used to charges additional fees above and beyond the
normal fees (billing codes). Together, billing codes and
markup codes, when associated with specific fleet
customers, determine the total rates for fleet billing
categories.
Example: Create a markup code for usage charges, and
then associate a rate with that markup code. When markup
fees are required, fleet customers are billed that amount for
usage charges.

Fleet Customer

A group that is used and billed for fleet vehicles.
Example: Create a fleet customer to correspond to a
specific department within a company; for example, a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1024 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

specific company will set up the Water and Sewer
department as one fleet customer and the Parks and
Recreation department as another fleet customer within its
fleet management module.

Understanding motor pool management
Track vehicles with the motor pool management functionality of the fleet management
module. First, create fleet customers, cost codes, and vehicles. Then, track the issuing and
returning of vehicles from the motor pool, using vehicle tickets. You can also associate billing
exceptions for vehicle tickets to add additional charges to the ticket and view billing
adjustments for credits or debits to the bill. Finally, you can view and modify fleet bills, view
fleet bill transaction and fleet bill adjustment transactions, and crate pool, loaner, and
assignment adjustments for credits and debits to the bill.

Understanding the fleet billing process
Through the fleet management system, fleet customers are billed for their use of pool, loaner,
and assignment vehicles. Fleet customers are also billed for other motor pool vehicle costs
such as maintenance labor and parts, non-maintenance related activities, fuel, insurance, and
vehicle ticket exceptions.
The fleet billing process is the means by which the fleet management module generates bills
for fleet customers. The process occurs automatically and is determined by the Process
Start Date and Process Start Time on the Billing Schedules tab of the Fleet
Configuration form. Fleet billing periods are determined by the Period End Date for each
billing schedule on the Billing Schedules page of the Fleet Configuration form, and fleet
bills are generated according to this date.
If for some reason the bills are not generated automatically, you can start the billing process
manually by clicking Run Billing Process on the Parameters tab of the Fleet Configuration
form.
If periods associated with Period End Dates that are before the most recent Period End
Date remain unbilled when you manually initiate the billing process, the bills for the earliest
unbilled period are generated, and then bills for the next earliest unbilled period are billed until

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1025 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

all unbilled periods (which are past due) have been processed.
You can also choose to view the current charges for a fleet customer by clicking Current
Charges on the Billing History tab of the Fleet Customers form. All charges up to the
current system date are calculated and displayed. Viewing the current charges provides an
idea of the amount of charges for the period to date.
Finally, you can regenerate the last bill for a specific fleet customer by clicking Regenerate
Bill on the Fleet Bills form. The fleet bills associated with the last fleet billing period are
displayed. Use the regeneration process to correct a billing mistake and regenerate the bill
instead of entering a billing adjustment. The changes are reflected on the subsequent bill.
For more information on fleet bills, see Modifying fleet bills.

Creating vehicle tickets
Create vehicle tickets that will track the issuing and returning of fleet vehicles from the motor
pool. The motor pool is a grouping of vehicles that are either rented to employees on a short
term basis (pool/loaner vehicles) or are provided as a long-term means of transportation
(assignment vehicles).
You must have specific vehicle ticket authorizations to insert, update, and delete
vehicle ticket records. To create vehicle tickets:
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Vehicle Tickets.
2. Click New Record. The system automatically populates Date Created and Created By.
3. Specify this information:
Ticket Type - Choose one of the following options:
• Pool - Select to indicate that the vehicle is a pool vehicle.
• Loaner - Select to indicate that the vehicle is a loaner vehicle.
• Assignment - Select to indicate that the vehicle is an assignment vehicle.
Ticket Status - Choose one of the following options:
• Issued - Select to indicate that the vehicle will be issued.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1026 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Returned - Select to indicate that the vehicle has been returned.
• Completed - Select to indicate that the ticket is complete and ready to be billed.
Vehicle - Specify the vehicle to associate with the vehicle ticket. The system
automatically populates the vehicle description, Vehicle Org., Shop, Vehicle
Status, Issued Fuel Level, Issued Parking Location, and Issued Mileage.
Received Vehicle - Specify the received vehicle to associate with the vehicle
ticket. The system automatically populates the received vehicle description,
Received Vehicle Org., and Received Vehicle Status.
You can only specify a Received Vehicle for loan tickets.
Issued To - Specify the employee to which to issue the vehicle. The system
automatically populates Cost Code, Fleet Customer, Fleet Customer Org.,
License No., and Phone No.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code with which to associate the vehicle ticket.
License No. - Specify the employee’s driver’s license number.
Other - Specify the visiting employee to which to issue the vehicle.
You must enter an employee in Issued To and/or Other.
Phone No. - Enter the employee’s phone number.
Fleet Customer - Specify the fleet customer with which to associate the vehicle
ticket. The system automatically populates Fleet Customer Org.
Ticket Class - Specify the class of the ticket.
Issued Fuel Level - Specify the amount of fuel in the vehicle at the time it is
issued. The system retrieves the amount from the last ticket, if available.
Issued Parking Location - Specify the location of the vehicle at the time it is
issued. The system retrieves the location from the last ticket, if available.
Issued Mileage - Specify the mileage of the vehicle at the time it is issued. The
system retrieves the mileage from the greater of the last ticket or meter reading.
Issued Date/Time - Specify the date and time that the vehicle is issued.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1027 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Issued Date/Time cannot be after the system date/time or the Returned
Date/Time.
Est. Return Date/Time - Specify the estimated date and time that the vehicle is
expected to be returned.
4. Use the following fields for returning previously issued vehicles:
Returned Fuel Level - Specify the amount of fuel in the vehicle at the time it is
returned.
Returned Parking Location - Specify the location of the vehicle at the time it is
returned.
Returned Mileage - Specify the mileage of the vehicle at the time it is returned.
Returned Date/Time - Specify the date and time that the vehicle is returned. The
system automatically populates Hours Used and Mileage Used.
Hours - Specify the number of hours for which to bill the vehicle.
Mileage - Specify the number of miles for which to bill the vehicle.
5. Click Save Record. The system automatically populates Ticket, Issued Date/Time,
and Issued By. The system also automatically populates the Billing Code and Markup
Code associated with the Vehicle, Class, Category, Type, and the Fleet Customer.

• If exceptions have been associated with the vehicle ticket, Exceptions is selected.
• Upon saving a vehicle ticket with a status of Returned, the system automatically
populates Returned To, Hours Cost and the currency, Mileage Cost and the currency,
Exceptions Cost and the currency, Total Cost and the currency, and Period End Date.
• Upon saving a vehicle ticket with a status of Completed, the system automatically
populates Completed Date/Time.
• Click Assignment Billing to view billing details for each period in which the assignment
ticket has been billed.

Associating billing exceptions with vehicle tickets

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1028 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Associate billing exceptions with vehicle tickets. For example, associate an exception code
that charges customers an additional fee for low amounts of fuel in returned vehicles with the
vehicle ticket.
You cannot associate billing exceptions with completed vehicle tickets.
To associate billing exceptions with vehicle tickets:
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Vehicle Tickets.
2. Select the vehicle ticket for which to associate billing exceptions, and then click the
Exceptions tab.
3. Click Add Exception.
4. Specify this information:
Exception - Specify the exception with which to associate the vehicle ticket. The
system automatically populates the exception description, Exception Org., and
Amount.
Date - Specify the current date.
Exception Type - Select the type of exception.
Extra Charge - Select to include this exception in the vehicle ticket billing costs.
Amount - Specify the amount of the additional fee for the exception.
Exception Comments - Enter any additional comments.
5. Click Submit.
Click Create WO to create a new work order for the vehicle ticket exception
combination. The system populates Work Order with the new work order number. If a
standard work order is associated with the exception, the standard work order can be used to
create the work order. See Creating work orders for equipment.

Viewing billing adjustments for vehicle tickets
To view billing adjustments for vehicle tickets:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1029 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system checks the vehicle Ticket Type on the vehicle ticket header and displays
billing adjustments based on the Ticket Type. Assignment adjustments are displayed
differently than pool and loaner adjustments.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Vehicle Tickets.
2. Select the vehicle ticket for which to view billing adjustments, and then click the Billing
Adjustments tab.
3. View the billing adjustments for the vehicle ticket.

Viewing fleet bills
View fleet bills that are generated by the billing process.
To view fleet bills:
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Bills.
2. View the fleet bill information.

Modifying fleet bills
Modify fleet bills that are generated by the system.
You cannot delete fleet bills.
To modify fleet bills:
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Bills.
2. Select the fleet bill to modify, and then click the Record View tab.
The system automatically populates Fleet Bill, the fleet bill description, Fleet
Customer, Fleet Customer Org., Period End Date, Total, Billed Date, and General
Ledger.
3. Specify this information:
Class - Specify the class to which the fleet bill belongs. The system automatically
populates Class Org.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1030 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Paid Date - Specify the date that the fleet bill was paid.
4. Click Save Record.

• Click Regenerate Bill to regenerate the bill. The system generates and displays a new
fleet bill number and deletes the original bill from the system. The new bill will include all
transactions that were originally billed as well as any new transactions that are within
the billing period that are not billed. Billed Date is populated with the current system
date.
• You cannot regenerate the bill if the bill you want to regenerate is not the latest bill or if
the bill has been sent to a general ledger.
• If the bill is regenerated, the system deletes the old bill.

Viewing billing details for fleet bills
View billing details for specific fleet bills. Fleet bill charges are summarized to the unique fleet
customer cost code and vehicle level. Charges are displayed by the following categories:
Usage, Mileage, Maintenance, Non-maintenance, Fuel, Insurance, and Exceptions. The
system also displays a total charge for each bill line, a subtotal, which summarizes the
charges for all bill lines by category, an adjustment line, which summarizes all adjustments
entered for previous bills that are included in the selected bill, grand totals of each of the
charge categories, and a total bill charge.
When filtering the billing details, Subtotals and Totals may change; they are relative
to the specific fleet bill lines in the grid. Adjustments totals will not change, as they are related
to the entire bill.
To view billing details for fleet bills:
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Bills.
2. Select the fleet bill for which to view billing details, and then click the Billing Details tab.
3. View the billing details.

Viewing fleet bill transactions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1031 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View individual transaction information for specific billing categories. For example, select
Usage as the Category, and then click View Transactions. The system displays the specific
usage transactions that make up the usage total for the selected bill line. This includes usage
charges and usage markup charges.
To view fleet bill transactions:
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Bills.
2. Select the fleet bill for which to view fleet bill transactions, and then click the Billing
Details tab.
3. Select the fleet bill line for which to view fleet bill transactions.
You must select a bill line to view fleet bill transactions.
4. Specify this information:
Category - Choose one of the following options:
• Usage - Select to show usage charges only.
• Mileage - Select to show mileage charges only.
• Maintenance Labor - Select to show maintenance labor charges only.
• Maintenance Parts - Select to show maintenance parts charges only.
• Non-maintenance Labor - Select to show non-maintenance labor charges only.
• Non-maintenance Parts - Select to show non-maintenance parts charges only.
• Fuel - Select to show fuel charges only.
• Insurance - Select to show insurance charges only.
• Exceptions - Select to show exception charges only.
5. Click View Transactions.
6. View the charges for the specific transaction category.

Viewing fleet bill adjustment transactions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1032 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View individual adjustment transaction information for specific billing categories. For example,
select Usage as the Category, and then click View Adjustment Transactions. The specific
usage adjustment charges that make up the entire bill are displayed. This includes usages
adjustment charges and usage markup charges. All adjustments related to the bill and
category are always displayed.
To view fleet bill adjustment transactions:
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Bills.
2. Select the fleet bill for which to view fleet bill adjustment transactions, and then click the
Billing Details tab.
3. Choose one of the following options for Category:

Option

Description

Usage

Select to show usage charges only.

Mileage

Select to show mileage charges only.

Maintenance Labor

Select to show maintenance labor charges only.

Maintenance Parts

Select to show maintenance parts charges only.

Non-maintenance Labor

Select to show non-maintenance labor charges only.

Non-maintenance Parts

Select to show non-maintenance parts charges only.

Fuel

Select to show fuel charges only.

Insurance

Select to show insurance charges only.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1033 of 2039

Exceptions

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select to show exception charges only.

4. Click View Adjustment Transactions.
5. View the charges for the specific adjustment transaction category.

Creating pool and loaner adjustments for fleet bills
Create an adjustment to vehicle ticket charges that have already been billed. The adjustments
will be reflected on the subsequent fleet bill. You can make changes to billing category
amounts or cost codes. To enter specific pool or loaner adjustments for hours charges, hours
markup charges, mileage charges, mileage markup charges, and/or exceptions charges,
specify the pool or loaner adjustment amount in the corresponding field. These assignment
adjustment amounts can be negative (a credit) or positive (a debit).
You can only make adjustments to pool and loaner vehicle tickets on this form. You
cannot update a pool or loaner adjustment after the adjustment is billed.
To create pool and loaner adjustments for fleet bills:
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Bills.
2. Select the fleet bill for which to create a pool or loaner adjustment, and then click the
Pool/Loaner Adjustments tab. The system automatically populates Created By and all
currency fields in the Adjustment Details section.
3. Click Add Adjustment.
4. Specify this information:
Ticket - Specify the vehicle ticket for which to add a pool/loaner adjustment. The system
automatically populates Vehicle, the vehicle description, Issued Date/Time, Created
Date/Time, Period End Date, Returned Date/Time, Cost Code, Hours Billed and the
currency, Hours Markup Billed and the currency, Mileage Billed and the currency,
Mileage Markup Billed and the currency, and Exceptions Billed and the currency.
New Cost Code - Specify a new cost code to correct a ticket that was billed to an
incorrect cost code.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1034 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You cannot adjust cost code values and pool or loaner adjustment amounts on
the same fleet bill. If you enter a New Cost Code, the system protects all other fields
except Ticket and Comments. If you clear the New Cost Code, the system re-enables
all of the protected fields. If you enter pool and loaner adjustment amounts, the system
protects New Cost Code. If you clear the pool or loaner adjustment amounts, the
system re-enables New Cost Code.
Hours Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for hours charges.
Hours Markup Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for hours markups.
Mileage Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for mileage charges.
Mileage Markup Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for mileage markup
charges.
Fuel Markup Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for fuel markup charges.
Exceptions Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for exceptions charges.
Exception - Specify the exception for which to add pool or loaner adjustment. The
system automatically populates Exceptions Adjustment.
Comments - Enter any comments about the pool or loaner adjustment.
5. Click Submit.
You cannot delete a pool or loaner adjustment after the adjustment is billed.

Creating assignment adjustments for fleet bills
Create an adjustment to vehicle ticket charges that have already been billed. The adjustments
will be reflected on the subsequent fleet bill. To correct a ticket that was billed to an incorrect
cost code, enter a New Cost Code. To enter specific assignment adjustments for period
charges, period markup charges, mileage charges, mileage markup charges, fuel markup
charges, insurance charges, insurance markup charges, and/or exceptions charges, specify
the assignment adjustment amount in the corresponding field. These assignment adjustments
amounts can be negative (a credit) or positive (a debit).
You can only make adjustments to assignment vehicle tickets on this screen. You
cannot update an assignment adjustment after the adjustment is billed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1035 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To create assignment adjustments for fleet bills:
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Bills.
2. Select the fleet bill for which to create an assignment adjustment, and then click the
Assignment Adjustments tab. The system automatically populates Created By and all
currency fields in the Adjustment Details section.
3. Click Add Adjustment.
4. Specify this information:
Ticket - Specify the vehicle ticket for which to add an assignment adjustment. The
system automatically populates Vehicle, the vehicle description, Issued Date/Time,
Created Date/Time, Period End Date, Returned Date/Time, Cost Code, Period
Charge Billed and the currency, Period Markup Billed and the currency, Mileage
Billed and the currency, Mileage Markup Billed and the currency, Fuel Markup Billed
and the currency, Insurance Billed and the currency, Insurance Markup Billed and the
currency, and Exceptions Billed and the currency.
New Cost Code - Specify a new cost code to correct a ticket that was billed to an
incorrect cost code.
You cannot adjust cost code values and assignment adjustment amounts on
the same fleet bill. If you enter a New Cost Code, the system protects all other fields
except Ticket and Comments. If you clear the New Cost Code, the system re-enables
all of the protected fields. If you enter assignment adjustment amounts, the system
protects New Cost Code. If you clear the assignment adjustment amounts, the system
re-enables New Cost Code.
Period Charge Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for period charges.
Period Markup Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for period markups.
Mileage Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for mileage charges.
Mileage Markup Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for mileage markup
charges.
Fuel Markup Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for fuel markup charges.
Insurance Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for insurance charges.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1036 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Insurance Markup Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for insurance markup
charges.
Exceptions Adjustment - Specify the adjustment amount for exceptions charges.
Exception - Specify the exception for which to add an assignment adjustment. The
system automatically populates Exceptions Adjustment.
Comments - Enter any comments about the assignment adjustment.
5. Click Submit.
You cannot delete an assignment adjustment after the adjustment is billed.

HxGN EAM Microsoft Project interface
The HxGN EAM Microsoft (MS) Project Interface facilitates work order scheduling and
resource assignment by allowing you to schedule work and resources in MS Project and then
update the HxGN EAM database with the information.
See the MS Project documentation for information on standard MS Project functionality.

Installing the EAM MS Project interface
You must install HxGN EAM and MS Project 2003 or MS Project 2010 before you
install the HxGN EAM MS Project Interface.
See the HxGN EAM Installation Guide and the MS Project 2003, 2010 documentation.
You must also install the MS .NET Framework Version 1.1 before you install the HxGN EAM
MS Project Interface. The MS .NET Framework is included on the HxGN EAM MS Project
Interface CD, and is called DOTNETFX.EXE. You must run DOTNETFX.EXE before
SETUP.EXE if the MS .NET Framework is not already installed on the machine.
1. Insert the HxGN EAM MS Project Interface CD into the proper drive.
2. Choose the folder specific to your version of MS Project:
• MS Project 2003-2007 - Select this folder if you have MS Project 2003 or 2007
installed on your machine.
• MS Project 2010 - Select this folder if you have MS Project 2010 installed on your

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1037 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

machine.
3. Execute the SETUP.EXE file. The Language Installation dialog box is shown.
If you would like to use English as the language for the installation, execute the
msproject.msi file. The installation wizard will skip the language selection option in step
#4 and display the Welcome dialog box.
4. Select the language to be used in the installation, and then click OK.
5. Click Next.
6. Click I accept the terms in the License Agreement, and then click Next.
7. Enter the folder in which to install the HxGN EAM MS Project Interface.
8. Click Next.
9. Click Install.
10. Wait for the system to complete the installation, and then click Finish.
11. Click Close.

Choosing a language for the HxGN EAM MS Project interface
After the installing the HxGN EAM MS Project, choose a language for the interface.
1. Select HxGN > HxGN EAM MS Project Interface > Choose Language.
2. Select the language to be used in the HxGN EAM MS Project Interface, and then click
OK.

Setting up connection information
Before completing tasks within the system, you must first set up the appropriate connection
information. Use this information each time you log in to the system.
The connection information is also used to establish privileges to HxGN EAM records
within the system. Therefore, you can only create and maintain one user record per client
machine.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1038 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Open MS Project.
2. Select HxGN > HxGN EAM.
3. Click Set connection information.
4. Specify this information:
Host Name - Enter the URL for the HxGN EAM server.
Username - Enter the user code used to log in to HxGN EAM. If necessary, include the
tenant after the user code, e.g., user@tenant.
Password - Enter the password used to log in to HxGN EAM.
5. Click Save.
Click Test to test the connection information.

Associating EAM priority codes with MS Project priority codes
After defining work priority codes in HxGN EAM, associate those codes with the priority codes
in MS Project.
1. Select Administration > Setup > MS Project Priority Mappings.
2. Click Add Mapping.
3. Specify this information:
HxGN EAM Priority - Select the HxGN EAM work priority code to associate with an MS
Project priority code.
MS Project Priority - Specify the MS Project priority code to associate with the HxGN
EAM priority code.
4. Click Submit.

Creating scheduling sessions in EAM
Create batches of work orders to import into MS Project by creating scheduling sessions in
HxGN EAM. You can also send resource information to MS Project with the scheduling
session.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1039 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To return to a previous side-pane while creating a new scheduling session, click the
appropriate Go back to button.
1. Open MS Project.
2. Select HxGN > HxGN EAM.
3. Set the connection information for the HxGN EAM MS Project Interface.
4. Click Create new scheduling session.
5. Specify this information:
Description - Specify a description of the session.
Organization - Specify the organization with which to associate the session if you use
multi-organization security.
Include Header Task - Select the check box to display both the work order header
tasks and work order activity sub-tasks.
Set Task Duration To Est. Hours - Select the check box to populate Duration of the
activity task to the estimated hours of the HxGN EAM work order activity.
6. Click Save and go to Step 2.
7. Specify this information:
From - Specify the beginning date of the work order activity start dates included in the
session.
To - Specify the ending date of the work order activity start dates included in this
session.
8. Click Save and go to Step 3.
9. Choose one or more of the following criteria for filtering work orders to include in the
session:
Project - Click Project, and then select the projects to include in the list of work orders.
Department - Click Department, and then select the departments to include in the list
of work orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1040 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

WO Type - Click WO Type, and then select the work order types to include in the list of
work orders.
WO Status - Click WO Status, and then select the work order statuses to include in the
list of work orders.
Priority - Click Priority, and then select the priorities to include in the list of work
orders.
Trade - Click Trade, and then select the trades to include in the list of work orders.
Equipment - Click Equipment, and then enter the first letter(s) in the spelling of the
pieces of equipment to include in the list of work orders. Click Refresh. Select the
pieces of equipment to include in the list of work orders.
Equipment Class - Click Equipment Class, and then select the equipment classes to
include in the list of work orders. The selected criteria is displayed in the preview-pane.
Assigned By - Click Assigned By, and then select the supervisors to include in the list
of work orders.
10. Click Display Results. A list of unlocked work order activities that matches the activity
start date range and the criteria you selected is displayed. Select the work order
activities to include in the new scheduling session.

• Check Select to select all of the work order activities.
• You cannot select work order activities that are associated with existing open
sessions.
• You cannot select work order activities with Estimated Hours equal to 0.
11. Click Save and go to Step 4.
12. Choose one or more of the following criteria for filtering employees to include in the
session:
Department - Click Department, and then select the departments to include in the list
of employees.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1041 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Trade - Click Trade, and then select the trades to include in the list of employees.
Class - Click Class, and then select the classes to include in the list of employees. The
system displays the selected criteria in the preview-pane.
13. Click Display Results. A list of employees that matches the criteria you selected is
displayed. Select the employees to include in the new scheduling session.
Check Select to select all of the employees.
14. Click Save and go to Step 5.
15. Choose one or more of the following criteria for filtering suppliers to include in the
session:
Class - Click Class, and then select the classes to include in the list of suppliers.
16. Click Display Results. A list of suppliers that matches the criteria you selected is
displayed. Select the suppliers to include in the new scheduling session.
Check Select to select all of the suppliers.
17. Click Save and go to Step 6.
18. Choose one or more of the following criteria for filtering maintenance equipment to
include in the session:
Department - Click Department, and then select the departments to include in the list
of maintenance equipment.
Class - Click Class, and then select the classes to include in the list of maintenance
equipment.
Category - Click Category, and then select the categories to include in the list of
maintenance equipment.
19. Click Display Results. A list of maintenance equipment that matches the criteria you
selected is displayed. Select the maintenance equipment to include in the new
scheduling session.
Check Select to select all of the maintenance equipment.
20. Click Save and go to Step 7.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1042 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

21. Click Class to select the classes to include in the list of tools.
22. Click Display Results. A list of tools that matches the criteria you selected is selected.
Select the tools to include in the new scheduling session.
Check Select to select all of the tools.
23. Click Save and Finish.
When saving the record, the work order activity and resource (employee, supplier,
maintenance equipment, and tool) records are also imported for the session into MS Project.

Creating and adding work orders and activities to scheduling
sessions
Create a work order or a work order activity and then add it to an existing scheduling session.

Creating a work order and adding it to an existing scheduling
session
To create a work order and add it to an existing scheduling session:
1. Open the MS Project file that contains the open scheduling session for which to add a
work order.
You must first create or import a scheduling session in order to add a work
order.
2. Click Create work order.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment on which to perform work. The system
automatically populates Equipment Description and WO Org.
WO Description - Specify a description of the work needed.
Status - Specify the status of the work order.
Type - Specify the type for the work order.
Priority - Specify the priority of the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1043 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Standard WO - Specify the standard work order.
If you enter a Standard WO, the system creates the new work order, any
activities, any child work orders, and related activities. Only standard work orders and
child work orders with activities are added to the current scheduling session.
Parent WO - Specify the code identifying the parent work order.
Class - Specify the class of the work order.
Department - Specify the department.
Location - Specify the location of the work to be completed.
Problem Code - Specify the code to identify the problem.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code of the work order.
Sched. Start Date - Specify the starting date for the work order.
Sched. End Date - Specify the ending date for the work order.
Assigned To - Specify the person responsible for the work order.
Reported By - Specify the employee requesting the work.
Assigned By - Specify the supervisor who assigned the work order.
Project-Budget - Specify the project budget for the work order.
Trade - Specify the trade required to perform the activity.
Task - Specify the task code for the activity.
Material List - Specify the material list code for the material list containing the parts
needed for the work order.
Activity Start Date - Specify the beginning date for the activity.
Activity End Date - Specify the ending date for the activity.
Estimated Hours - Specify the number of estimated hours for the activity.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to perform the activity.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1044 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Submit.

• Click Custom Fields to display all custom fields associated with the work order.
• Enter a priority for the work order. The system converts the HxGN EAM Priority to the
appropriate MS Project Priority before creating the scheduling session.

Creating a work order activity and adding it to an existing
scheduling session
To create a work order activity and add it to an existing scheduling session:
1. Open the MS Project file that contains the open scheduling session for which to add a
work order activity.
You must first create or import a scheduling session in order to add a work
order activity.
2. Select the work order for which to add an activity, and then click Create work order
activity. Work Order, Work Order Description, and WO Org. are automatically
populated.
3. Specify this information:
Activity - Specify an activity.
Trade - Specify the trade required to perform the activity.
Task - Specify the task code for the activity.
Material List - Specify the material list code for the material list containing the parts
needed for the work order.
Activity Start Date - Specify the starting date for the activity.
Activity End Date - Specify the ending date for the activity.
Estimated Hours - Specify the number of estimated hours for the activity.
People Required - Specify the number of people required to perform the activity.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1045 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Submit.

Importing work orders into open MS Project scheduling sessions
from EAM
Import an existing work order into an open MS Project scheduling session from HxGN EAM.
1. Open MS Project.
2. Select HxGN > HxGN EAM.
3. Set the connection information for the HxGN EAM MS Project Interface.
4. Click Import Existing Work Order.
5. Specify this information:
Work Order - Select the work order to import into MS Project.
Work Orders must have at least one activity to be imported.
An open scheduling session must exist to import existing work orders. If no open
scheduling session exists for the project file, create or import a scheduling session prior
to importing existing work orders.
6. Click Import.

Exporting sessions from MS Project to EAM
Export scheduling sessions from MS Project after scheduling work or modifying schedules.
1. Open the MS Project file that contains the open scheduling session that you want to
export to HxGN EAM.
You must first create or import a scheduling session in order to export a
scheduling session.
2. Click Export scheduling session.
3. Click Export Session.
HxGN EAM updates the resources assigned, Activity Start Date, Activity End
Date, Estimated Hours, and Percent Complete, and sets Assigned By of the work

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1046 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

order equal to Assigned By in MS Project.
Click Cancel to close the Export Scheduling Session side-pane without exporting any
records to HxGN EAM.
Work order activities deleted in MS Project are not deleted in HxGN EAM, and new work
order activities created in MS Project will not be exported back to HxGN EAM.

Canceling sessions
Cancel an existing scheduling session.
Canceling the session will not delete the work order activities and resource
(employee, supplier, maintenance equipment, and tool) records from the current project, but
after canceling the session, you cannot export the updated tasks back to HxGN EAM.
To cancel sessions:
1. Open the MS Project file that contains the open scheduling session that you want to
cancel.
You must first create or import a scheduling session in to order cancel a
scheduling session.
2. Click Cancel scheduling session.
3. Click Cancel Session.

Asset management services
The asset management services module is used by maintenance organizations that operate
as a business unit and charge the cost of maintenance work to the customers for whom the
work is performed. Work charged to one customer may be carried out at different places.
Time, material, and labor costs are defined in pricing schedules and then applied to customer
contracts, which specify how maintenance work is charged to the customer. The contracts are
then used to calculate work order costs and to generate invoices and reports.

Creating customer contracts
Create contracts for commercial service customers to specify how time, material, and labor

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1047 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

costs are charged to a customer for maintenance work.
Customers are defined for use with service requests and asset management services. See
Creating customers.
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Customer Contracts.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the customer contract belongs if you
use multi-organization security.
Customer Contract - Specify a description of the customer contract in the adjacent
field. After you save the record, a customer contract number will be assigned.
Status - Select the contract status. Changing the status of a customer contract may
affect additional system checks and field changes as follows:

Option

Description

Unfinished

All fields are editable. However, when you save the
customer contract with Unfinished status,
Organization is protected.

Approved

All fields are protected except Status and End Date.
Approved status indicates that payments can be
approved and work orders can be processed.

Finished

All fields are protected except Status. Finished status
indicates that payments and work order charges can
still be invoiced, but no new work order charges will
be processed for a finished contract.

Cancelled

All fields are editable except Organization. A
canceled status indicates that the customer con- tract

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1048 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

has been canceled and can only be selected if no
invoiced payments or work order charges exist.

You cannot modify the status of customer contracts if there are any existing
approved or invoiced fixed charges, or if there are any existing calculated work orders.
A calculated work order is a work order that is associated with a customer contract for
which customer charges have been calculated. See Understanding the calculation of
customer charges.
Class - Specify the class of the contract. The classes shown belong to the AGR entity.
Customer - Specify the customer to whom to charge the work.
Pricing Schedule - Specify the pricing schedule for time and material costing. Choose
one of the following options:

Option

Description

Apply the contract to equipment Specify the Equipment for which to apply the
contract. The contract also applies to any child
equipment, unless the cost roll-up attribute is set for
the child equipment.

Apply the contract to a project

Specify the Project to which the contract applies. The
contract also applies to any child projects.

Apply the contract to an event

Specify the Work Order to which the contract
applies.
MEC work orders are not displayed in the
Work Order lookup.

Start Date and End Date - Specify the date on which the contract period begins and
the expiration date of the contract. If you do not enter a date, there is no time limitation
on the contract.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1049 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If the contract has a fixed charge due date, the Start Date must be on or before
the fixed charge due date, and the End Date must be on or after the fixed charge due
date.
4. Click Save Record.

Creating fixed charge schedules for customer contracts
Create fixed charge schedules for customer contracts to create a set price to be added to a
customer invoice based upon a specified due date.
When generating costs for a customer contract, the system uses fixed charges in the place of
any work order charges and creates the fixed charges via the customer invoice.
See Understanding the calculation of customer charges.
If a work order is created with a cost for a customer contract, the system bypasses the work
order when calculating costs, and the cost for the customer will be the specified fixed
charges.
To create fixed charge schedules for customer contracts:
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Customer Contracts.
2. Select the customer contract for which to create fixed charges and then click the Fixed
Charges tab. The system automatically populates and protects Start Date and End
Date with the date(s) from the customer contract header. The system populates
Currency with the currency of the Organization of the contract header.
3. Click Add Fixed Charge.
4. Specify this information:
Line - Specify a description of the fixed charge in the adjacent field. Modify the
sequence number of the fixed charge as necessary. The next incremental line number is
automatically assigned based on the setting of the INCRLINO installation parameter.
You can only edit the Line number when inserting a record. After the record is
saved, Line is protected.
Status - Select the status of the fixed charge. Changing the status of a fixed charge
may affect additional system checks and field changes as follows:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1050 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Option

Description

Unfinished

All fields are editable. However, when you submit the
fixed charge with Unfinished status, the system
protects Line. Select Unfinished if the fixed charge or
the customer contract is not approved.

Approved

The system protects all fields except Status. Select
Approved to create an invoice for this payment.

Cancelled

The system protects all fields except Status. Select
Cancelled to cancel the invoice for this payment.

Due Date

Specify the date when records can be invoiced.
Leave this field blank for the record to be invoiced
every time invoices are generated.

Price

Specify the gross price (not including tax) in internal
currency units.

5. Click Submit.

Creating pricing schedules
Create pricing schedules to define time and material calculations, work orders, custom trade
rates, and part-specific charges to be associated with customers and customer contracts.
To create pricing schedules:
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Pricing Schedules.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1051 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization - Specify the organization to which the pricing schedule belongs if you
use multi-organization security.
Price Schedule - Specify a unique code identifying the pricing schedule and then enter
a description of the pricing schedule in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the pricing schedule. The classes shown belong to the ARR
entity.
Labor Cost % - Specify the percentage of the work order labor costs that is charged to
the customer.
Stock Items % - Specify the percentage of the work order costs for stock items that is
charged to the customer.
Hired Labor % - Specify the percentage of the work order hired labor costs that is
charged to the customer.
Direct Outs % - Specify the percentage of the work order direct material costs that is
charged to the customer.
Tool Usage % - Specify the percentage of the work order tool usage costs that is
charged to the customer.
Services % - Specify the percentage of the work order services costs that is charged to
the customer.
Additional Charge - Specify an additional fee to associate with the pricing schedule.
For example, if you assess a standard trip charge regardless of the work performed,
enter that amount.
Additional Charge is not displayed if the MULTIORG installation parameter is
set to YES. If you are using multi-organization security, you must add additional charges
for each organization on the Additional Charges page. See Adding additional charges
(MOS).
Time Rounding (min.) - Specify the number of minutes to round charged time of
booked hours. For example, a value of 15 indicates rounding to quarters of an hour.
Minimum Time (min.) - Specify the minimum number of minutes to charge per labor
booking.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1052 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Custom Trade Rates - Select to apply a markup for specific trade rates.
If you enter Labor Cost %, you cannot select Custom Trade Rates.
Custom Part Charges - Select to apply part charges depending on the type of part
used.
If you enter Stock Items %, you cannot select Custom Part Charges.
4. Click Save Record.
When you save the pricing schedule record, a record is also created on the Custom
Trade Rates, Custom Part Charges, and WO Criteria pages based on the information
entered for the pricing schedule.

Creating custom trade rates
Create custom trade rates for a pricing schedule. Custom trade rates are used to charge labor
costs to customers based on rates defined for specific trades and hour types instead of a
standard labor cost percentage entered on the Pricing Schedule header.
To create custom trade rates:
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Pricing Schedules.
2. Select the pricing schedule for which to create custom trade rates and then click the
Custom Trade Rates tab.
3. Click Add Rate.
4. Specify the Trade, Type of Hours, and Hourly Rate to charge the customer.
5. Click Submit.

Creating custom part charges
Create custom prices for part charges for a pricing schedule. Custom part charges are used
to charge material costs to customers based on rates defined for part classes instead of a
standard stock item cost percentage entered on the Pricing Schedule header.
To create custom part charges:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1053 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Pricing Schedules.
2. Select the pricing schedule for which to create custom part charges and then click the
Custom Part Charges tab.
3. Click Add Charge.
4. Specify this information:
Part Class - Specify the part class for which to charge part prices to the customer.
Charge % - Specify the percentage of the part prices to charge to the customer.
To indicate that the exact cost is charged to the customer, enter 100. To create
a surcharge for the part prices, enter a value greater than 100.
5. Click Submit.

Adding additional charges (MOS)
Add additional charges to a pricing schedule for specific organizations. Additional charges on
a pricing schedule are added to every work order that is completed for a customer contract.
The additional charges are not added or displayed on the work order when the work order is
created. Instead, additional charges are added to the work order costs when the system
calculates work order customer charges.
See Understanding the calculation of customer charges.
You can only add additional charges for specific organizations if the MULTIORG
installation parameter is set to YES.
To add additional charges (MOS):
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Pricing Schedules.
2. Select the pricing schedule for which to add additional charges and then click the
Additional Charges tab.
3. Click Add Charge. The system automatically populates Organization with the
organization of the logged-in user.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1054 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Additional Charge - Specify an additional amount to add to invoices for the pricing
schedule.
A fixed charge is per invoice; whereas, an additional charge is per work order.
Organization - Specify the organization for which to add the fixed or added price.
5. Click Submit.

Defining work order criteria
Define criteria to identify the work orders for which to charge for pricing schedules. The
system uses the specified work order criteria for a pricing schedule to select the work orders
for which to charge a customer when calculating work order costs.
After the system selects all of the existing work orders matching the work order criteria for a
pricing schedule, it then calculates and compiles all the costs for the work orders, which will
be used later during the assembly of charges for customer invoices.
See these topics:
• Understanding the calculation of customer charges
• Understanding customer invoice generation
To define work order criteria for pricing schedules:
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Pricing Schedules.
2. Select the pricing schedule for which to define work order criteria parameters and then
click the WO Criteria tab.
When you create pricing schedules, the system automatically creates a WO
Criteria record for the Department, WO Type, and Equipment Class using an asterisk
(*) to represent all departments, work order types, and equipment classes. See Creating
pricing schedules.
3. Click Add WO Criteria.
4. Specify the Department, WO Type, and Equipment Class for the work being
performed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1055 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Viewing invoices for AMS-Customers
View a list of invoices for a selected customer.
If you use multi-organization security, the system displays all invoices for a selected customer
based on the query permissions established by the multi-organization security settings for the
EVNT and INV entities.
To assemble/generate customer invoices, right-click on a form for which the customer invoice
generation option is available, and then select Create Customer Invoice. See Understanding
customer invoice generation.
To view invoices for customers:
1. Select Work > Service Request > AMS-Customers.
2. Select the customer for which to view invoices and then click the Invoices tab.
3. View the customer invoice information.

Viewing AMS-customer contracts
View contracts associated with each customer.
Customers are defined for use with service requests and asset management services.
To view customer contracts:
1. Select Work > Service Request > AMS-Customers.
2. Select the customer for which to view contracts and then click the Contracts tab.
3. View the customer contract information.

Calculating and approving customer charges
The system calculates customer charges based on customer contracts, pricing schedules,
and work orders associated with customer contracts.
Review customer charges and make corrections as necessary, and then approve and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1056 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

generate the customer charges to customer invoices.

Understanding the calculation of customer charges
The system calculates customer charges and locates the current work orders that are
associated with a customer contract. View the customer charges on the AMS-Approve
Customer Charges form.
The customer charge calculation process is initiated at different points within the system and
includes work orders that match the following criteria:
• Work orders of event type JOB or PPM (or their user status equivalent)
• Work orders for which there is no Parent work order
• Work orders for which Continue Charging is not selected and are not associated with
any customer charge records with a Status of Excluded from invoicing, Approved, or
Invoiced
• Work order line types LAB, MAT, HIR, DMA, FIX, or TOOL
For all work orders that match the previously stated criteria, customer charges are then
calculated. See the following list for additional information:
• First, the system determines which work orders are associated with a customer
contract. To do so, the system checks the work order first, then the project of the work
order (and child projects), then the equipment of the work order (and child equipment),
and finally the location of the work order (and child locations).
• After making the association between a work order and a customer contract, the system
then creates a customer charge record for the work order on the AMS-Approve
Customer Charges form.
A work order must have some costs associated with it to generate a customer
charge.
If the system cannot find an approved contract that matches, the system generates an
error message that can be viewed on the Comments page of the AMS-Approve
Customer Charges form for the current work order charge record. Also, if there is an
error message for the work order charge record, the Status of the record will always be
changed to Data Error.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1057 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If there are multiple, valid customer contracts associated with a work order, the system
generates charges for the customer contract for which the most specific data is defined.
If there is more than one valid customer contract, the system generates charges for the
customer contract associated with a pricing schedule for which specific values are
defined on the WO Criteria page of the Pricing Schedules form.
• Next, the system retrieves any additional charges for pricing schedules associated with
the customer contract.
The system only adds the value of an additional charge to a work order once. It
does not include any additional charges for which there are already existing charges on
a work order, unless the value of the Additional Charge has been updated on the pricing
schedule after a work order charge has been generated. If the Additional Charge has
been updated, then the first work order charge record contains the original value of the
Additional Charge, and the system generates a new work order charge for the
difference between the values of the two additional charges.
• If Custom Trade Rates is selected for a pricing schedule associated with a customer
contract, the system bypasses any trade rates and uses only the rates specified on the
Custom Trade Rates page of the Pricing Schedules form.
• If Custom Part Charges is selected for a pricing schedule associated with a customer
contract, the system calculates charges using the values specified for Charge % on the
Custom Part Charges page of the Pricing Schedules form to calculate charges rather
than the value specified for Stock Items Charge %.
• If there are existing labor hours on a work order, the system rounds the hours based on
the values specified for Time Rounding (min) and Minimum Time (min) on the pricing
schedule.
The system does not track which transactions belonging to a work order have
already been billed. Therefore, if you re-generate work order charges for a customer
contract, the system simply calculates the total work order charges again and subtracts
the values that have already been approved or invoiced to calculate the necessary
charges for the new work order charge record.

Approving and generating customer charges
Approve customer charges after reviewing and correcting the results of time and material

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1058 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

calculations.
After approving the customer charges, generate invoices from all customer charges. The
system generates customer charges for all work orders, not just the work order selected on
the List View page.
To approve and generate customer charges:
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Approve Customer Charges.
2. Select the work order for which to approve customer charges and then click the Record
View tab. The system automatically populates Charge Number, Run Date, Customer,
Originator, and Customer Contract.
Charge Number is used to associate several invoices with the same work
order.
3. Specify this information:
Status - Specify the status of the customer charges. See the following for a description
of the possible customer charge statuses:

Option

Description

Approved

Work order charge will be invoiced. All fields are
protected except Status.

Data Error

System generated status. Work order charge will not
be invoiced. You can update Status, Continue
Charging, and Corrections as necessary.

Exclude from invoicing

Work order charge will not be invoiced. You can
update Status, Continue Charging, and
Corrections as necessary.

Invoiced

System generated status indicating that the charges
are invoiced. All fields are protected.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1059 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

After you generate the invoice, the system
automatically changes Status to Invoiced.

Unapproved

Default status of the calculations. You can update
Status, Continue Charging, and Corrections as
necessary.

Continue Charging - Select to enable the system to continue generating invoice
charges for the same work order. If selected, the system creates a new Charge Number
when generating customer charges, assigns a new incremental number to a newly
calculated charge record, and displays the difference in price between the actual and
the existing calculation(s).
Continue Charging is automatically selected for calculations for noncompleted work orders.
Comments - Select to calculate work order charges for only completed work orders.
Corrections - Specify the amount to adjust the work order costs. Enter deductions as
negative amounts.
4. Click Generate All Customer Charges.
5. Specify the Organization, Work Order, Customer, Department, Equipment, and
Project for which to calculate work order charges.
6. Specify this information:
Released Work Orders - Select to only calculate work order charges for released work
orders.
Print Report - Select to print a report of all the calculated work order charges.
Completed From and Completed To - Specify the work order completion date range
for which to calculate work order charges.
Completed Work Orders - Select to calculate work order changes for only completed
work orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1060 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

7. Click Calculate.
If you did not specify any generation criteria, charges for all work orders of type JOB
or PPM with a status of Released or Completed will be generated. The system verifies that
the work order(s) have no parent work order and that the customer charges do not have a
Status of Approved, Excluded from invoicing, or Invoiced.

Viewing charges for AMS-Customers
View a list of calculated charges for a customer. Calculated customer charges are accrued
from work orders for which charges are compiled for external invoicing purposes based on the
terms of an established customer contract.
To view charges for customers:
1. Select Work > Service Request > AMS-Customers.
2. Select the customer for which to view charges and then click the Charges tab.
3. View the customer charges information.

Creating and generating customer invoices
Generate customer invoices to create and assemble accounts receivable invoices for asset
management service customers, work order charges, and fixed payments.
Customer invoices are only related to asset management services and should not be
confused with the invoice voucher functionality in the Purchasing Management module
See Recording invoice vouchers.
You can generate customer invoices several different ways:
• Calculate customer charges and create a single customer invoice using the Create
Customer Invoice right-click option on the Work Orders form. See Creating customer
invoices from work orders.
• Generate customer invoices from the Customer Invoices form. See Generating
customer invoices.
• Create an invoice for a work order

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1061 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Upon initiation of the invoice generation process, the system locates all customer charge
records and fixed charge schedules for customer contracts. The system does not recalculate
the invoice charge records. See Understanding the calculation of customer charges.
The system adds the total price for the customer(s) based on the specified invoice generation
criteria. The system changes the Status of all work orders on the Approve Customer
Charges form to Invoiced.
Depending on the specified generation criteria, the system generates separate invoices for
each customer, for which the invoice organization is the organization of the customer contract.
If a single customer is referenced on more than one customer contract and the
customer contracts are from different organizations, the system generates invoices for each
of the customer contract organizations.
You can also generate invoices for customers that are marked as Out of Service.

Understanding customer invoice generation
When you generate a customer invoice, the system retrieves the charge records generated
by the customer charge process and then creates customer invoices displaying the Total
Price for each work order. See Understanding the calculation of customer charges.
See the following list for additional information on the manner in which the system generates
customer invoices:
• The system retrieves all customer charges and fixed charges for a customer contract.
• The system then generates the sum of the Total Price for the customer(s) based on the
criteria specified on the Generate Invoices popup or the work order specified on the
Create Invoice for WO popup.
• The system changes the status of all work orders on the Approve Customer Charges
form to Invoiced.
• The system generates a separate invoice for each customer.

• If a single customer is referenced on more than one customer contract and the
customer contracts are in different organizations, the system generates separate

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1062 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

invoices for each of the customer contract organizations.
• The system also enables you to generate invoices for customers that have been
marked as Out of Service.

Creating customer invoices from work orders
Create a customer invoice from a work order to calculate customer charges and create a
single customer invoice for a specific work order.
To create customer invoices from work orders:
1. Select Work > Work Orders.
2. Select the work order for which to create customer invoices and then click the Record
View tab.
3. Enter or update any information on the work order as necessary. See Creating regular
work orders.
4. Right-click on the form and then choose Create Customer Invoice.
View the customer invoice created on the Customer Invoices form. See Viewing
invoices for customers.

Generating customer invoices
Generate customer invoices for all customers or for a single customer.
To generate customer invoices:
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Customer Invoices.
2. Select the customer invoice for which to generate invoices and then click the Record
View tab.
3. Right-click on the form and then choose Generate Invoices.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization for which to generate invoices.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1063 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work Order - Specify the work order for which to generate invoices. If you enter a work
order, the system generates an invoice for only the specified work order.
Customer - Specify the customer for which to generate invoices. If you enter a
customer, the system generates a single invoice that contains all the costs for the
specified customer.
By default the system generates customer invoices for all customers on the
Customer Invoices form unless you specify a specific customer. The system enables
you to generate invoices for a single work order by using the Create Customer Invoice
right-click option on the Work Orders form. See Creating customer invoices from work
orders.
Approved Customer Changes - Select to generate invoices for only those customer
charges with a status of Approved.
Any corrections made on the Approve Customer Charges form are reflected
on the invoice after it is generated. See Approving and generating customer charges.
Fixed Charges - Select to generate invoices for fixed charges. If you created a fixed
charge schedule for a customer contract, you must select Fixed Charges to include the
schedule on an invoice. See Creating fixed charge schedules for customer contracts.
Original Invoice - Specify the customer invoice to recalculate. If you specify an invoice
to recalculate, the system generates a new invoice with the latest customer charges.
The system displays all customer invoices, including those with Cancelled
status. You can use a wild card, such as "%", with partially-specified text strings
anywhere within the field to retrieve strings containing the specified text.
The recalculate invoice functionality does not make corrections to the original invoice.
The system generates an updated invoice.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the start and end dates for which to generate
invoices.
If no date range is specified, the system generates invoices for all Approved
customer invoices.
The date range specified refers to the date on which the work order was completed. The
date range does not apply to released work orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1064 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Unapproved Customer Charges - Select to generate invoices for customer charges
with a status of Unfinished.
5. Click Generate.
View details about the generated invoices on the Customer Invoice Lines
Overview form. See Viewing customer invoice lines.

Creating invoices for work orders
Creating an invoice for a work order is only related to work performed for asset
management services customers and should not be confused with the invoice voucher
functionality in the Purchasing Management module. See Recording invoice vouchers.
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Customer Invoices.
2. Click the Record View tab.
Because the customer invoice is being generated for a work order, the Create
Invoice for WO right-click option is not affected by the selected customer invoice
record. Although the right-click option is only available from the Record View tab of the
Customer Invoices form, the invoice is generated independently of the selected
customer invoice record on the Record View page.
3. Right-click, and then choose Create Invoice for WO.
4. Specify this information:
Work Order - Specify the work order for which to create an invoice.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing and changing the status of customer invoices
View and change the status of customer invoice records.
To assemble/generate customer invoices, right-click on the form for which the
customer invoice generation option is available, and then choose Create Customer Invoice.
See Understanding customer invoice generation.
To view and change the status of customer invoices:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1065 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Customer Invoices.
2. Select the customer invoice for which to view or change the status and then click the
Record View tab.
3. Specify the Status of the customer invoice.
The system displays all available statuses for the EIV entity, including any userstatuses created on the Status Authorizations form. However, the system does not
allow some status changes regardless of the status authorizations created on the
Status Authorizations form. The system allows the following status changes (and their
user-status equivalents): Invoiced to Cancelled; Invoiced to Ready for Printing; Ready
for Printing to Cancelled; and Ready for Printing to Invoiced.
4. Click Save Record.

Viewing customer invoice lines
View a list of all charge lines on a customer invoice.
To view customer invoice lines:
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Customer Invoices.
2. Select the customer invoice for which to view invoice lines and then click the Lines tab.
3. View the customer invoice line information.

Viewing an overview of customer invoice lines
View an overview of customer invoice lines to access detailed information about all the
charges on customer invoices.
To view an overview of customer invoice lines:
1. Select Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Customer Invoice Lines
Overview.
2. View the customer invoice line information.

Budgets

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1066 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Budgets track expenses and set spending limits for specified time periods or items. Budgets
coordinate with existing inventory. They also can be defined for predetermined time frames
such as months, quarters, or years.

Defining budget setup information
Calendar types, structures, terms, and groups are required before creating budgets.

Defining budget calendar types
Calendar types are used to determine the number of reporting periods in a budget term.
To define budget calendar types:
1. Select Operations > Budgets > Budget Calendar Types.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Calendar Type - Specify a name for the calendar type, and then enter a calendar type
description in the adjacent field.
Number of Periods - Specify the number of periods for this budget calendar type, such
as 12 for a monthly calendar, 4 for quarterly.
Class - Specify the class for the calendar type. The system automatically populates
Class Org.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining budget structures
Budget structures define levels for cost reporting. There are six levels available, but only one
is required. Budget structures can be used by multiple budgets in a specific organization.
To define budget structures:
1. Select Operations > Budgets > Budget Structures.
2. Click New Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1067 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the budget structure hierarchy belongs
if you use multi-organization security.
Budget Structure - Specify a name for the budget structure, and then enter a budget
structure description in the adjacent field.
Calendar Type - Specify the calendar type for the budget structure.
Level 1 - Select the first level of the budget structure hierarchy.
Level 2 - Select the second level of the budget structure hierarchy.
Level 3 - Select the third level of the budget structure hierarchy.
Level 4 - Select the fourth level of the budget structure hierarchy.
Level 5 - Select the fifth level of the budget structure hierarchy.
Level 6 - Select the sixth level of the budget structure hierarchy.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining budget terms
Budget terms consist of a calendar type defined by start and end dates. You can include a
single budget term in multiple budgets.
To define budget terms:
1. Select Operations > Budgets > Budget Terms.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the budget term belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Budget Term - Specify a name for the budget term, and then enter a budget term
description in the adjacent field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1068 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Calendar Type - Specify the calendar type for the budget term. The system
automatically populates Number of Periods.
Start Date - Specify the start date for the budget term.
End Date - Specify the end date for the budget term.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining periods for budget terms
Periods for budget terms set the start and end dates for the terms. Default periods are
created automatically when the budget term is saved. Periods can be changed or renamed as
necessary.
To define periods for budget terms:
1. Select Operations > Budgets > Budget Terms.
2. Select the budget term for which to set the period, and then click the Periods tab. The
system automatically populates Sequence Number.
3. Specify this information:
Period - Specify a new name for the period, such as January, February, or First Quarter.
Start Date - Specify the start date for the period.
End Date - Specify the end date for the period.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining budget groups
Create budget groups for different entities. Budget groups include Departments, Systems,
Equipment, WO Locations, Cost Code, WO Cost Type, WO Job Type, and Project. Using
budget groups saves time by assigning a budget amount to a group of items rather than to
many single items; for example, define a budget group for the HVAC group containing all
pieces of equipment associated with the HVAC system.
To define budget groups:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1069 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Operations > Budgets > Budget Groups.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the budget group belongs if you use
multi-organization security.
Budget Group - Specify a budget group name, and then enter a budget group
description in the adjacent field.
Entity - Specify the entity for which to create a budget group. The system automatically
populates entity description.
4. Click Save Record.

Assigning items to budget groups
Items can be combined to form budget groups. For example, you can define a budget group
for the HVAC system to include all pieces of equipment associated with the system. A
thermostat could be one item within the HVAC budget group. Items can belong to multiple
budget groups.
To assign items to budget groups:
1. Select Operations > Budgets > Budget Groups.
2. Select the budget group for which to assign an item, and then click the Items tab.
3. Specify this information:
Item - Specify an item.
4. Click Submit.

Defining budgets
Create and update budgets on the Budgets form. The budget combines a specific budget
structure and term. Set a current amount and a person responsible.
To define budgets:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1070 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Operations > Budgets > Budgets.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Budget Structure - Specify a budget structure. The system automatically populates
budget structure description, Organization, Calendar Type, Date Created, and Status.
Budget Term - Specify the budget term.
The budget Calendar Type should be the same as the budget structure
Calendar Type.
Date Created - Change the creation date if necessary. Date Created can be in the past
or future.
Status - Choose one of the following options:

Options

Description

In Process

Select for budgets not yet approved.

Temporary value

Select for budgets not yet approved.

Final value

Select for budgets not yet approved.

Approved/frozen

Select to approve or freeze the budget. You must
create the Budget Details before you can select
this status. See Defining budget details.
If you select Approved/frozen, the system
automatically populates Original Amount,
Approved By, and Date Approved.
If the status changes from Approved/frozen to
any other status, the above fields are not affected

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1071 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and updated the next time the Budget is
approved.
Temporary value, Final value, and
Approved/frozen are available in update mode
only.

Current Amount - Specify the current budget amount.
Person Responsible - Specify the name of the person responsible for the budget.
Total Sub-Budget Amount - If budget details exist, this value is the total amount set up
for its level one sub-budgets.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining budget details
Using the Details page of the Budgets form, combine budget information and assign specific
monetary amounts to each budget area. The Details page contains budgeted amounts for
individual budget items or groups within the structure of a budget. Define budgets according
to dollar amount for individual budget items or for budget groups.
To define budget details:
1. Select Operations > Budgets > Budgets.
2. Select the budget for which to view details, and then click the Details tab.
In the budget tree, the item code and organization will be displayed with the
budget amount if details already exist. Descriptions are hover text only.
3. Click Add Budget. The system enables the Budget Details section.
The system automatically populates Current Budget and Calculated Budget.
If you click Add Sub-Level Budget, the fields will display in the same manner
but appear beneath the main budget heading for the next lower level in the budget
structure.
4. Enter information in the required fields.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1072 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

When adding budgets and sub-level budgets, the fields vary depending upon
the levels set up in each budget structure. Complete the required fields as they display.
For each budget, select an individual budget item or a budget group, and then assign a
budget amount. All other fields are protected.
5. Specify this information:
Budget Amount - Specify the amount for the currently selected budget. The system
automatically populates the budget amount currency.
6. Click Submit.

Calculating budgets
Calculate a budget to gather costs from work orders. Depending on the scope of the budget,
you may want to run the calculation process during down times, such as in the evening or on
the weekends.
Budgets are not automatically updated when you incur costs.
To calculate budgets:
1. Select Operations > Budgets > Budgets.
2. Select the budget to calculate, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Right-click, and then select Calculate Current Budget.
The system automatically populates Budget Structure, budget description, Budget
Term, and term description.
4. Specify this information:
From Period - Specify a starting period that corresponds to the Start Date of the
Budget Term.
To Period - Specify an ending period that corresponds to the End Date of the Budget
Term.
If From Period and/or To Period are left blank, the system calculates budget
amounts for the earliest and latest periods.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1073 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Copying budgets
The copy budget feature copies a Budget structure and term, including all the lower-level
budget details.
To copy budgets:
1. Create a budget.
2. Right-click, and then select Copy Budget. The system automatically populates Budget
Structure, description, and Budget Term.
3. Specify this information:
To Budget Structure - Specify a new budget structure. The system automatically
populates the To Budget Structure description.
To Budget Term - Specify a new budget term.
Copy Budgeted Amounts - Select to copy only budgeted amounts.
Copy Actual Costs - Select to copy actual costs for the budget.
Click Calculate Budget before copying budgets to ensure that actual costs are
up-to-date.
Plus or Minus % - Specify the amount to adjust the budget, such as 10% over last
year’s budgeted amount.
Calculate Zero-based Budget - Select to calculate a zero-based budget.
Reset Amounts to Zero - Select to set the copied term’s actual non-PM costs plus
expected PM costs for the term to which you are copying. Resetting amounts to zero will
include all maintenance due next term as well as the same amount of breakdowns as
occurred in the most recent term.
4. Click Submit.

Copying sub-level budgets

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1074 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Copy a node in the budget details structure to include sub-level budgets and all lower-level
budget details. Copying sub-level budgets allows you to copy various budget subsets; for
example, the same list of equipment for every month or the same cost codes for every
department.
To copy sub-level budgets:
1. Select Operations > Budgets > Budgets.
2. Select the budget for which to copy a sub-level budget, and then click the Details tab.
3. Click Copy Sub-Level Budget. The system automatically populates From Budget and
its description.
4. Specify this information:
To Budget/To Budget Group - Specify the budget to which you want to copy the
budget details or enter the budget group to which the new budget is copied. For
example, if From Budget is January, you can copy it to a new budget for February.
The system automatically populates To Budget Group and its description if To Budget
is entered.
Copy Budgeted Amounts - Select to copy all budget amounts to the new budget.
Reset Amounts to Zero - Select to reset budget amounts to zero on all new records.
Plus or Minus % - Specify a percentage by which to adjust new values.
5. Click Submit.

Investment planning
The Investment Planning screen allows the maintenance manager to set up data for an
optimized scheduler investment planning session. The user sets up the required data and
selects the equipment and capital planning requests to be included in the scheduling session
before sending this data to the constraint optimizer. EAM Constraint Optimizer uses this data
to decide when to apply investment options to equipment and capital planning requests. Once
complete, the suggested investment plan is returned to HxGN EAM.
Add capital planning requests to the investment plan on the Capital Planning Requests tab.
Add equipment to the investment plan on the Equipment tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1075 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating investment plans
Maintenance managers can use this screen to set up data for Constraint Optimizer
investment planning sessions.
Set up the required data and select equipment and capital planning requests to be included in
the scheduling session before handing this data over to the optimized scheduler. This data is
used by the scheduler to determine when to apply investment options to equipment and
capital planning requests. Once complete, the optimized scheduler returns the suggested
investment plan to EAM.
1. Select Operations > Investment Planning.
2. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization associated with the investment plan.
Investment Plan - Specify the name of the investment plan.
Description - Specify the description for the investment plan.
Class - Optionally, specify the class associated with the investment plan.
Status - Specify the status of the investment plan.
Start Date - Specify the start date for the investment plan.
Planning Periods - Specify the number of planning periods for the investment plan.
Year Inflation % - Optionally, specify the inflation percentage for each year of the
investment plan.
3. Select the Allow Early Investments check box to allow the scheduler to schedule
investments before they are due. This option is available if the Funding Type is Yearly
Increase or Yearly Increase %.
4. Select the Allow Budget Roll Over check box to allow partial investments to roll into
the next year. This option is available if the Funding Type is Yearly Increase or Yearly
Increase %.
5. Select the Out of Service check box to indicate that the investment plan is no longer
being used.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1076 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Specify this information:
Funding Type - Specify the funding type for the investment plan, for example
Unlimited Budget, Yearly Increase %, or Yearly Increase.
Starting Budget - Specify the starting budget for the investment plan if the Funding
Type is Yearly Increase or Yearly Increase %.
Yearly Increase % - Specify the yearly increase percentage of the investment plan if
the Funding Type is Yearly Increase %.
Yearly Increase - Specify the yearly increase amount of the investment plan if the
Funding Type is Yearly Increase.
7. Optionally, specify this information:
Include Equipment Criticality - Select this check box to include equipment criticality
when determining the priority of the equipment or Capital Planning Requests for the
investment plan.
Include Equipment Risk - Select this check box to include equipment risk when
determining the priority of the equipment or Capital Planning Requests for the
investment plan..
CPR Priority Basis - Select the priority basis for the equipment or capital planning
requests for the investment plan. For example, specify Priority, Return on Investment,
Internal Rate of Return, or Net Present Value.
8. Optionally, click Create New Revision to create a new revision of the investment plan.
A new revision can be created from any previous revision. Optionally, specify the
Revision Reason.
9. Click Save.
10. Optionally, click Reset to reset the planning process, even if the planning is requested,
executing, or complete.
11. Click Start Planning to request the start of investment plan.
The Plan Priority must specified on the Capital Planning Requests and
Equipment tabs for the investment plan.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1077 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Adding equipment to investment plans
Add equipment to investment plans.
1. Select Operations > Investment Planning.
2. Select the investment plan for which to add equipment, and then click the Equipment
tab.
3. Specify this information:
Equipment - Select the equipment to add to the investment plan.
Priority Override - Specify the override value for the priority of the equipment.
4. Click Submit.
5. Optionally, click Calculate Plan Priority to calculate and update the priority for all
equipment attached to the header record.
6. Optionally, click the Actions link button, and then select from the following options:

Option

Description

Calculate Plan Priority

To set the plan priority for all equipment.

Refresh Age Data

To recalculate the age-related data for all equipment
where Age Refresh Required is selected.

Delete All

To remove equipment.

Creating scenarios for investment plans
Combine one or more investment plans into a scenario to send to EcoSys for processing.
1. Select Operations > Investment Planning.
2. Select an investment plan, and then click New Scenario.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1078 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. In the New Scenario pop-up window, the selected investment plan is automatically
populated.
4. Click Add Record to select additional investment plans to add to the scenario if
necessary.
5. Specify the Scenario Name.
6. Click Save.
7. Click Activate Scenario. The scenario data is sent to EcoSys using the Enterprise
Planning Control API endpoint so that EcoSys can retrieve the scenario data from EAM.

Adding capital planning requests to investment plans
Add capital planning requests to an investment plan.
1. Select Operations > Investment Planning.
2. Select the investment plan for which to add capital planning requests, and then click the
Capital Planning Requests tab.
3. Specify this information:
Capital Planning Request - Specify the capital planning request to add to the
investment plan.
Priority Override - Specify the override value for the priority of the capital planning
request.
Investment Period Override - Specify the override for the calculated investment
period.
Invest Early (years) - Specify the number of years allowed for early investment.
4. Click Submit.
5. Optionally, click Actions, and then select Calculate Plan Priority to set the Plan
Priority for all capital planning requests.
6. Click Actions, and then select Refresh Investment Period to calculate and update the
investment period for all capital planning requests attached to the header record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1079 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

7. Click Actions, and then select Delete All to remove capital planning requests.

Viewing planning results for investment plans
View the planning results once loaded in EAM from Constraint Optimizer.
1. Select Operations > Investment Planning.
2. Select the investment plan for which to view planning results, and then click the
Planning Results tab.
3. View the planning results for the investment plan.

Viewing the condition rating for equipment on investment plans
The expected future condition score for equipment of the investment plan is calculated based
on the starting condition score of the equipment and the chosen investment options, including
refurbishments and replacements. View the expected condition score once the score is
calculated.
1. Select Operations > Investment Planning.
2. Select the investment plan for which to view condition rating for equipment, and then
click the Equipment Condition tab.
3. View the equipment condition score results information.

Viewing the condition rating chart for investment plans
View the histogram that compares the average condition rating for equipment associated with
an investment plan. The chart shows the condition rating of the equipment at the beginning of
the first planning period in comparison to the condition rating of the equipment at the end of
the last period or any period in between.
1. Select Operations > Investment Planning.
2. Select the investment plan for which to chart condition ratings for equipment, and then
click the Condition Rating Chart tab.
3. Specify this selection criteria for the chart:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1080 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Class - Optionally, specify the equipment class associated with the header investment
plan for the report data.
Class Org. - Optionally, specify the class organization associated with the header
investment plan for the report data.
Category - Optionally, specify the equipment category associated with the header
investment plan for the report data.
Number of Bins - Optionally, specify the number of bins preferred to demonstrate bin
intervals to report data in the chart. Options include 2, 4, 5, 10, and 20.
If two bins is entered, the bin interval is 50, with bin intervals in the report
shown as 0-50 and 50-100.
If four bins is entered, the bin interval is 25, with bin intervals in the report shown as
0-25, 25-50, 50-75, and 75-100.
Planning Period - Optionally, enter the planning period for which you would like to run
this report to view data for this specific period of time. If left blank, the latest planning
period is automatically selected.
If you have 20 planning periods and you want to see how it looks after 12
periods, specify 12 in this field.
4. Click Submit to generate the chart.

Contracts
Purchasing contracts detail agreements for parts. Details include such information as
suppliers, time-frames, and buyer facts as well as percentage discounts arranged for each
contract according to order or duration.

Defining purchasing contracts
Purchasing Contracts detail agreements with specific suppliers for certain parts.
1. Open the Purchasing Contracts form.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1081 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization - Specify the organization to which the purchasing contract belongs if you
use multi-organization security.
Purchasing Contract - Specify a description of the purchasing contract in the adjacent
field. A purchasing contract number is assigned after you save the record.
Status - Select a status for the purchasing contract.

Option

Description

Unfinished

Select if the contract is editable and has not been
approved.
While system status is Unfinished, all fields
are editable except Purchasing Contract,
Organization, Supplier, Language, Currency,
Printed, and Copy From.

Approved/Active

Select if the contract has been approved. In order to
be considered active, it is not required for the contract
to be approved, however the system date must be in
the range created by the start and end dates.

Cancelled

Select if the contract no longer effects purchase order
changes.

Contract Class - Specify the contract class for the purchasing contract.
Supplier - Specify the supplier for the purchasing contract.
Language - Select the language for the purchasing contract.
Currency - Select the currency for the purchasing contract.
Store - Specify the store to which items on the purchasing contract should be sent.
Person Responsible - Specify the name of the employee responsible for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1082 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

purchasing contract.
Start Date - Specify the starting date for the purchasing contract.
End Date - Specify the ending date for the purchasing contract.
Supplier Reference - Specify the reference number for the supplier.
Contact - Specify the name of the contact person for the purchasing contract.
Copy From - Specify an existing purchasing contract to copy.
The Copy From contract must have the same Currency as the new contract.
Renewal Date - Specify the renewal date for the purchasing contract.
Own Contract - Select if the contract originated internally. Leave unselected if the
contract originated externally (with the customer).
4. Optionally, select the Printed check box on this form, and then the Printed check box on
the reports form will be selected to indicate that the contract has been printed.
5. Click Save Record.

Assigning parts to purchasing contracts
Add parts to purchasing contracts to define what is included in the contract.
To assign parts to a purchasing contract:
1. Select Purchasing > Contracts > Purchasing Contracts.
2. Select the contract for which to assign parts, and then click the Parts tab.
3. Click Add Part.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part to assign to the contract.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part.
If the selected part is a condition tracked child part, Condition is automatically

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1083 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

populated.
UOP - Specify the unit of purchase for the part.
Qty. per UOP - Specify the quantity per unit of purchase.
Supp. Catalog Reference - Specify the supplier catalog reference for the part.
Net Price - Specify the net price for the part.
Lead Time (Days) - Specify the number of days needed internally for inventory
deliveries of the part, or transfers of the part to the store.
5. Click Submit.

Defining part discounts for purchasing contracts
Add, update, and delete part discounts on a purchasing contract.
To define part discounts for purchasing contracts:
1. Select Purchasing > Contracts > Purchasing Contracts.
2. Select the contract for which to define part discounts, and then click the Part Discounts
tab.
3. Click Add Part Discount.
4. Specify this information:
Part - Specify the part for which to assign a discount. The system automatically
populates the part description, Part Org., Purchase Price, UOP, and Supp. Catalog
Reference.
Condition - Specify the condition if the part is a condition tracked parent part. If the
selected part is a condition tracked child part, the system will automatically populate
Condition.
Discount % - Specify the percentage for the part discount.
5. Choose one of the following options:
Minimum Qty. - Specify the minimum quantity that must be purchased in order to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1084 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

receive the discount.
Minimum Value - Specify the minimum value for the discount.
6. Select Apply to Each PO to apply the discount to each individual PO.
7. Click Submit.

Defining order discounts for purchasing contracts
Add order discounts to purchasing contracts to indicate the manufacturer discounts available
on specific orders.
To define order discounts for purchasing contracts:
1. Select Purchasing > Contracts > Purchasing Contracts.
2. Select the contract for which to define order discounts, and then click the Order
Discounts tab.
3. Click Add Order Discount.
4. Specify this information:
Minimum Value - Specify the minimum value for the order discount.
Discount % - Specify the percentage amount for the order discount.
Apply to Each PO - Select to apply the order discount to each individual PO.
5. Click Submit.

Defining clauses for contract classes
Modify, add, and delete lists of purchasing clauses for an existing contract class.
To define clauses for contract classes:
1. Select Purchasing > Contracts > Clauses of Contract Classes.
2. Specify this information:
Contract Class - Specify the contract class for which to associate clauses. The system

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1085 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

automatically populates the contract description and Contract Class Org.
3. Click Add Clause.
4. Specify this information:
Sequence - Specify the sequence number for the clause.
Clause - Specify the clause to associate with the contract class. The system
automatically populates the clause description.
5. Click Submit.

Defining purchasing contract text
Purchasing contract text contains basic information about the contract. Text is predefined for
the default contract class and contains such information as suppliers, timeframes, and buyer
information. Purchasing contract text fields allow the user to change the text labels on the
printed contract. Create and/or edit purchasing contract text to appear on the printed
purchasing contract.
To define purchasing contract text:
1. Select Purchasing > Contracts > Purchasing Contract Text.
2. Specify this information:
Contract Class - Specify the contract class for which to define purchasing contract text.
The system automatically populates the description and Contract Class Org.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Language - Select the language of the purchasing contract text.
Contract - Specify the contractor.
Supplier - Specify the vendor.
Start Date - Specify the contract period start.
End Date - Specify the contract period end.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1086 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Clauses - Specify the contract terms.
Financial Conditions - Specify the text label for the financial conditions section of the
printed purchasing contract.
Per Order - Specify the text label for the per order discount details section of the printed
purchasing contract.
Period - Specify the period discount.
Minimum Order Value - Specify the minimum order value.
Part - Specify the part.
Minimum Quantity - Specify the minimum quantity.
Minimum Value of Parts - Specify the minimum order line value.
Discount % - Specify the discount percentage.
5. Click Submit.

Call Center
The call center modules handles incoming customer requests for action, information, or
comments. Use the call center module to query a knowledge base for information to help
customers, or to facilitate the search process; search a GIS map to retrieve equipment for a
work order; create a new work order; link a request to an existing work order; or record
customer comments.
This modules easily facilitates the call taker's need for speed. Sections of the main Call
Center form can be expanded or collapsed, with minimal need to open additional forms.

Understanding Call Center
The call center serves three main purposes: answering requests for information (information
request), scheduling an action for requests (action request), and recording customer
comments (comment).
Typically, customers call, email, or fax the call center with an issue. The call center employee
responds by attempting to solve the customer’s problem, handling it according to the request
type.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1087 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Record each customer request to provide accurate reporting on request volume. As soon as
the customer contacts the call center, click save to create a new record before you take any
information. The type of request determines which sections of the form need to be filled in.
Many call centers require employees to perform a KB search for each customer request so
that standard procedures are followed (such as call scripts).
Information requests

Customers may contact the call center asking for information. Perform a search of the
knowledge base for the requested information. The knowledge base is a database of articles
created by supervisors of the call center to help facilitate the information request process.
A knowledge base article can consist of a call script or phone numbers to read to the
customer, an external URL link that will answer the request, or a link to another KB article.
Consult the article and relay the requested information to the customer. Typically, information
requests do not generate work orders. After the requested information is relayed to the
customer, the call usually ends. However, if the customer requires any work to be performed
after the information request, the call becomes an action request.
Action requests

Action requests usually involve a problem the customer has. To solve action requests, create
a customer request, which typically becomes a work order, or link the customer request to an
existing work order. Create a customer request for the problem, filling in the customer’s
information as needed. If this is the first report of the problem, create a work order. However,
if the problem has already been reported, then create a customer request from the new
customer and link it to the existing work order.
Departmental hierarchies

• Departments - A department is the umbrella under which providers, service categories,
and service problem codes fall. It is the top of the hierarchy. An example of a
department is "Environmental Services."
• Providers - Providers refer to the levels within a department directly above a service
category that handles the service needed. An example of provider is "Solid Waste."
• Service Categories - Service categories fall under a provider and help filter service
problem codes. Service categories represent the service needed. An example of a
service category is "Residential Garbage Pickup."

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1088 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Service Problem Codes - Service problem codes identify specific problems and any
information needed to provide solutions. A service problem code is required in order to
create a work order from a customer request. An example of a service problem code is
"Appliance Pickup." The appliance pickup problem is assigned a "code" that tells the
system that a stove, washer, dryer, or other appliance needs to be picked up when that
code is entered into the system. This service problem code has a standard work order
for appliance pickup.
Comments

Occasionally, customers call with comments, but no desire for information or need for work
performance. The comment may be about the new call center, an especially helpful
employee, or other messages that require no follow-up or action. The call center employee
records the comment.

Setting up basic Call Center information
To set up basic call center information, create service problem codes, associate layers with
service problem codes, and create providers, service categories, departments, and
knowledge base articles.

Entering contact information
Enter contact information for follow up and informational purposes.
Each contact must have either a Name, Address, or Employee Code before the
system saves the contact information.
To enter contact information:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Contact Information.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Name - Specify a first name, middle initial, and last name for the contact.
Company Name - Specify the name of the company where the contact works.
Employee - Specify an employee code for the contact if applicable. The system

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1089 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

automatically populates the employee name in the adjacent field.
Address 1 - Specify an address for the contact.
Address 2 - Specify an address for the contact.
City - Specify the city of the contact.
State - Specify the state of the contact.
Zip Code - Specify the zip code of the contact.
Address Alias - Specify a popular name for the address, such as Gwinnett Place Mall
or Finley Park.
Primary E-mail - Specify a primary e-mail address for the contact.
Secondary E-mail - Specify a work e-mail address for the contact.
Notes - Specify any applicable notes for the contact.
Organization - Specify the organization to which the contact belongs.
Class - Specify the class to which the contact belongs.
Primary Phone - Specify a primary phone number for the contact.
Secondary Phone - Specify an alternate phone number for the contact.
Third Phone - Specify a third phone number for the contact.
Primary Fax - Specify a home fax number for the contact.
Secondary Fax - Specify a work fax number for the contact.
E-mail Fax - Specify the e-mail address for the contact if you use fax software that
requires an e-mail address.
4. Click Save Record.
Optionally, click Revoke to remove the contact's record and all references to the record
for GDPR compliance.
This process is not reversible.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1090 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Associating equipment with contact information
For contacts with specific equipment, associate one or more pieces of equipment with the
contact information record.
Specific equipment can be a system, position, asset, or location. To associate
equipment with contact information:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Contact Information.
2. Select the contact for which to associate equipment, and then click the Equipment tab.
3. Click Add Equipment.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment to associate with the contact.
Equipment is multi-select to save time.
Type - Select the request type for the equipment.
5. Click Submit.

Creating service codes
Service problem codes identify requests, concerns, or problems that customers frequently
experience. Create service problem codes that are specific to your customer needs. With any
call type your employee can enter a specific service problem code to provide reporting on
frequency of that type of call. The service problem code may also contain all the information
needed to create a work order.
To create service problem codes:
1. Select Operations > Setup > Service Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the service problem code belongs if
you use multi-organization security.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1091 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Service Code - Specify a unique code identifying the service problem, and then enter a
description of the service problem code in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class with which to associate the service problem code.
Equipment - Specify the equipment to associate with the service problem code.
Equipment can also be selected on the Call Center form or GIS map when
processing an action request.
Temporary Fix Turnaround - Specify the amount of time it will take for the problem to
be fixed temporarily by entering in an amount, and then select the unit of time.
Permanent Fix Turnaround - Specify the amount of time it will take for the problem to
be fixed permanently by entering in an amount, and then select the unit of time.
Temporary Fix Turnaround and Permanent Fix Turnaround are used to
calculate promise dates on the Call Center form when Service Code is selected.
Service Request Portal - Select this check box to include the service code in the
Service Request Portal field when creating a service request.
Available for CUs - Select this check box to indicate that this service code is available
for compatible units.
Equipment Usability - Specify the code identifying the equipment's usability.
Equipment Usability is used in penalty reports when penalty amounts depend
upon equipment usability.
Penalty Factor - Specify the penalty factor with which to associate the service problem
code.
Out of Service - Select if the service problem code is not used.
For Follow-up - Select this check box to designate the service code as a follow-up
service code.
To prevent repeated references, service codes designated for follow-up cannot
have follow-up details themselves. Therefore, Follow-up Service Code and Follow-up
Timing are protected when For Follow-up is selected..

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1092 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Follow-up Service Code - Specify the service code that is used to create the follow-up
work order.
Follow-up Timing - Specify when the follow-up work order will be created.
WO Type - Select a type of work order to create for the service problem code.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order with which to associate the service
problem code.
WO Class - Specify the work order class with which to associate the service problem
code.
Priority - Select the priority for work orders created from this service problem code.
4. Click Save Record.

Associating GIS map layers with service codes
For each service problem code you create, you can associate GIS map layers. Layers might
include street lights, water lines, or other features to which a service problem code applies.
When the call taker opens the map for a particular address, the system displays the relevant
equipment layer based upon the service problem code.
To associate GIS map layers with service problem codes:
1. Select Operations > Setup > Service Codes.
2. Select the service code for which to associate a layer, and then click the Layers tab.
3. Click Add Layer.
4. Specify this information:
Layer - Select a layer with which to associate the service code.
5. Click Submit.

Defining case tasks for service codes
Tasks defined on this screen will be copied to the Tasks tab of the Case Management

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1093 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

screen, functioning as a template of sorts when the associated service code is selected on
the Case Management screen.
1. Select Operations > Setup > Service Codes.
2. Select the service code for which to define a case task, and then click the Case Tasks
tab.
3. Click Add Case Task.
4. Enter a description of the task.
5. Specify this information:
Sequence - Specify the sequential order in which this task is to be performed if there
are more tasks to define for this case.
Step - Specify a sub-sequence for tasks that have the same sequential order.
Task Plan for Checklist - Specify an existing task plan checklist to attach to this task.
Estimated Costs - Specify the estimated costs of the task.
Priority - Specify the priority of the task.
6. Select the Out of Service check box to prevent this task from being copied to the task
on the Case Management screen.
7. Specify the tracking details information.
8. Specify the follow-up work order details information if a work order is typically related to
this task.
9. Click Submit.
A unique code identifying the Task No. is assigned.

Defining sales prices for service codes
Sales prices can be defined for specific service codes to create invoice lines using a fixed
sales price rather than use the actual work order costs tracked by the system, like part issues,
time sheets, tool costs, etc.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1094 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To define sales prices for service codes:
1. Select Operations > Setup > Service Codes.
2. Select the service code for which to define sales prices, and then click the Sales Prices
tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the service code.
Sales Price - Specify the sales price for the service code.
Date Effective - Specify the date the sales price will become effective for the service
code.
5. Click Submit.

Creating providers
Providers facilitate knowledge base searches in the call center and provide additional levels
of reporting for a department.
To create a provider:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Providers.
2. Click New Record.
3. In Organization, specify the organization to which the provider belongs.
4. In Provider, specify a unique code identifying the provider, and then enter a description
of the provider in the adjacent field.
5. Specify this Provider Details information:
Address 1 - Specify an address for the provider.
Address 2 - Specify an address for the provider.
City - Specify the city of the provider.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1095 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

State - Specify the state of the provider.
Zip Code - Specify the zip code of the provider.
Primary E-mail - Specify the primary e-mail address for the provider.
Secondary E-mail - Specify an alternate e-mail address for the provider.
Contact - Specify the contact person for the provider.
Preferred Method of Contact - Select the method by which the contact prefers to
receive correspondence.
Class - Specify the class to which the provider belongs.
Primary Phone - Specify the primary phone number for the provider.
Secondary Phone - Specify an alternate phone number for the provider.
Third Phone - Specify the third phone number for the provider.
Primary Fax - Specify the primary fax number for the provider.
Secondary Fax - Specify an alternate fax number for the provider.
E-mail Fax - Specify the e-mail address for the provider if you use fax software that
requires an e-mail address.
6. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box if the provider is not used.
7. Click Save Record.
8. Click Convert to Supplier to replace this provider with the specified supplier record
across the system.

Creating service categories
Service categories facilitate knowledge base searches in the call center and provide
additional levels of reporting for a department.
To create service categories:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Service Categories.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1096 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Enter the organization to which the service category belongs.
Service Category - Enter a unique code identifying the service category, and then enter
a description of the service category in the adjacent field.
Class - Enter the class of the service category.
Out of Service - Select if the service category is not used.
4. Click Save Record.

Adding service codes to service categories
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Service Categories.
2. Select the service category, and then click the Service Codes tab.
3. Click Add Service Code.
4. Specify this information:
Service Code - Specify the service code to add to the service category.
5. Click Submit.

Creating department structures
Create department structures consisting of providers, service categories, and service problem
codes. To create department structures:
Add both a parent and child record at the same time. The system adds both to the
structure.
1. Select Equipment > Setup > Departments.
2. Select the department for which to create a structure, and then click the Structure tab.
3. Click Add Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1097 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Provider - Enter the provider for this department.
Service Category - Enter the service category.
Service Problem Code - Enter the service problem code. The system automatically
populates Service Problem Code Org.
5. Click Save Record.
If you delete a parent record, the system deletes all of its child records. For example,
deleting Provider 1 will also delete Category 1 and Service Problem Code 1 from the
structure.

Creating service delivery matrices for equipment
Create service delivery matrices to filter Department, Supplier, Service Category, and
Service Code lookups on the Call Center form and in the Knowledge Base based on the
selected equipment. See Selecting options for the Call Center form.
Service Delivery Matrix must be selected for Service Code Validation on the Call
Center Setup form before a service delivery matrix can be created for selected equipment.
To create service delivery matrices for equipment:
1. Select Equipment > Assets.
Select Equipment > Positions.
Select Equipment > Systems.
2. Select the asset, position, or system for which to create a service delivery matrix, and
then click the Service Delivery Matrix tab.
Service Delivery Matrix must be selected on the Record View tab of the
selected asset to display the Service Delivery Matrix tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:
Department - Specify the department that which is valid for the selected equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1098 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

All Departments - Optionally, select this check box to select all departments.
Supplier - Specify the provider that which is valid for the selected equipment.
All Suppliers - Optionally, select this check box to select all suppliers.
Service Category - Specify the service category that which is valid for the selected
equipment
All Service Categories - Optionally, select this check box to select all service
categories.
Service Code - Specify the service code that which is valid for the selected equipment.
All Service Codes - Optionally, select this check box to select all service codes.
5. Click Submit.

• To copy a service delivery matrix for child equipment, select the service delivery matrix,
and then click Copy to Every Child Matrix. The service delivery matrix is copied to the
Service Delivery Matrix tab of every child equipment with Service Delivery Matrix
selected on its record in the service delivery matrix already.
• To import a matrix, select the service delivery matrix to import to, and then click Import
Matrix. Select the equipment from which to import the matrix, and then click Submit.

Defining calendar groups for equipment
Define a calendar group code for a group of equipment that share periods of availability, such
as several school buildings in a school district.
To define calendar groups for equipment:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Calendar Groups.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1099 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Calendar Group - Specify the calendar group, and then specify a description in the
adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the equipment.
Out of Service - Select if the calendar group is not used.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining calendar periods for calendar groups
Define periods of availability for calendar groups to calculate penalties and for reporting
purposes.
To define calendar periods for calendar groups:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Calendar Groups.
2. Select the calendar group for which to define periods, and then click the Calendar
Periods tab.
3. Click Add Calendar Period.
4. Specify this information:
Calendar Period - Specify the name of the calendar period.
Start Date - Specify the date the calendar period starts.
End Date - Specify the date the calendar period ends.
Monday Start Time - Specify the start time for Mondays during the calendar period.
Monday End Time - Specify the end time for Mondays during the calendar period.
Tuesday Start Time - Specify the start time for Tuesdays during the calendar period.
Tuesday End Time - Specify the end time for Tuesdays during the calendar period.
Wednesday Start Time - Specify the start time for Wednesdays during the calendar
period.
Wednesday End Time - Specify the end time for Wednesdays during the calendar

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1100 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

period.
Thursday Start Time - Specify the start time for Thursdays during the calendar period.
Thursday End Time - Specify the end time for Thursdays during the calendar period.
Friday Start Time - Specify the start time for Fridays during the calendar period.
Friday End Time - Specify the end time for Fridays during the calendar period.
Saturday Start Time - Specify the start time for Saturdays during the calendar period.
Saturday End Time - Specify the end time for Saturdays during the calendar period.
Sunday Start Time - Specify the start time for Sundays during the calendar period.
Sunday End Time - Specify the end time for Sundays during the calendar period.
5. Select the Internal Office Hours check box to indicate the calendar period represents
internal office hours for the calendar group.
6. Click Submit.

Creating knowledge base articles
Create knowledge base articles to reference when assisting customers. Knowledge base
articles can contain instructions for call center employees, links to websites, or separate
documents for the customer.
To create knowledge base articles:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Knowledge Base Articles.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization.
Knowledge Base Article - Specify a unique code to identify the article, and then enter
a title for the article in the adjacent field.
If AUTOKBNUM=YES the KB article is assigned a number. Contact your

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1101 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system administrator for more information.
Language - Select the language for the article text and information.
Status - Select the status for the article.
Articles with an Obsolete status are not displayed during a knowledge base
article search.
Department - Specify the department with which to associate the article.
Provider - Specify the provider with which to associate the article.
Service Category - Specify the service category with which to associate the article.
Service Problem Code - Specify a service problem code with which to associate the
article. The system automatically populates Service Problem Code Org.
Department, Provider, Service Category, and Service Problem Code are
copied to the customer request when the article is selected from the knowledge base.
Keywords - Specify words that identify the article when performing KB searches.
Remarks - Enter remarks about the article.
Article Text - Enter the body text of the article. Within Article Text you can link
documents, other knowledge base articles, and external web pages to the knowledge
base article you are creating with the HTML Editor. Click Hyperlink to link a document,
knowledge base article, or web address.
Copy and paste from existing documents to save time.
4. Click Save Record.

Viewing associated service delivery matrices and knowledge base articles
Each equipment record can have a service delivery matrix defined with allowable
combinations of Department, Provider, Service Category, and Service Problem Code.
When a knowledge base article is created with the referenced values for the department,
provider, service category, and service problem code, the system creates a viewable record of
the association.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1102 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To view associated service delivery matrices and knowledge base articles:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Knowledge Base Articles.
2. Select the knowledge base article for which to view an associated service delivery
matrix, and then click the Service Delivery Matrix Equipment tab.
3. View the information.

Creating bulletin board notices
Create, edit, and view bulletin board notices from the Call Center form.
To create bulletin board notices:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Bulletin Board Notices.
2. Click New Record. The system automatically populates Created By and Date Created.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Enter the organization to which the bulletin board notice belongs.
Language - Select the language in which to create the notice.
To create a notice in more than one language, create separate bulletin board
notices for each language.
Importance - Select the level of importance for the notice. The system displays icons
on the bulletin board indicating the selected level of importance.
Knowledge Base Article - Enter the article to which a hyperlink should be displayed on
the bulletin board.
Start Date - Enter the start date for displaying the notice on the bulletin board.
End Date - Enter the end date for displaying the notice on the bulletin board.
If you do not enter a Start Date and End Date, the system displays the notice
on the bulletin board until an End Date is entered or the notice is deleted.
Title - Enter the title for the notice.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1103 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Notice - Enter the details of the notice.
4. Click Save Record. The system automatically populates Bulletin Board Notice.

Defining event log type filters
Define which event log types are selectable in the Event Log Type for combinations of Source
(Call Center or WO), WO Type, and WO Class.
To define event log type filters:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Event Log Type Filter.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Source - Select the screen for which the event log type will display.
Event Log Type - Select the type of event log to display for the Source, WO Type, and
WO Class.
WO Type - Enter the work order type for which the event log type will display.
WO Class - Enter the work order class for which the event log type will display.
4. Click Save Record.

Setting up the Call Center form
Set up the Call Center form by selecting default values and the options to display on the
form.

Selecting options for the Call Center form
Select the options for the Call Center form to expedite the incident request process.
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Select the organization for which to select options, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1104 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Default Source - Select the source to display as the default source on the Call Center
form.
Default WO Status - Select the default status to display when creating a work order on
the Call Center form.
Default WO Org. - Specify the organization to display as the default work order
organization when a work order is created and the system cannot determine the work
order organization from the service problem code or equipment.
Default Type - Select the default request type.
Default Find Contact By - Select the default option to search by when searching for
contact information.
Use Default Organization - Select to use the call taker's default organization on the
Call Center form.
If unselected, the call taker must pick an organization for each caller on the
Call Center form.
Default Source from Portal - Specify the default source for the service request records
created from the Service Request Portal.
Default Type from Portal - Specify the default type for the service request records
created from the Service Request Portal.
Default Status from Portal - Specify the default status for the service request records
created from the Service Request Portal.
Open Request Status when WO Closes - Select the status to assign to open incident
requests when the work order to which they are linked is closed.
This refers only to service requests that are open.

Option

Description

Open

Select to keep the service request open when the
work order closes.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1105 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Follow-up

Select to flag the service request for follow up when
the work order closes.

Closed

Select to close the service request when the work
order closes.

Cancelled

Select to cancel the service request when the work
order closes.

Follow-up Request Status when WO Closes - Select the status to assign to follow-up
service requests when the work order to which they are linked is closed:
This refers only to service requests marked for follow-up.

Option

Description

Open

Select to open the service request when the work
order closes.

Follow-up

Select to flag the service request for follow-up when
the work order closes.

Closed

Select to close the service request when the work
order closes.

Cancelled

Select to cancel the service request when the work
order closes.

You may define more statuses to meet your call center requirements. Contact
your system administrator for more information.
Top Ten Lookback Days - Specify the number of days for which to calculate the top ten

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1106 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

knowledge base articles. For example, enter 10 to view the top ten articles for the last
10 days, or enter 6 to view the top ten articles for the last 6 days.
Minimum Penalty - Specify the minimum penalty amount that must be met before a
penalty can be deducted from the maintenance fee.
Service Code Validation - Select one of the following options:

Option

Description

Department Structure

Select to define a hierarchy of department, provider,
service category, and service code on the
Department Structure page of the Departments
form. Equipment and service code do not restrict one
another. For example, a service code for tree removal
does not need to be linked to every possible parcel
within a city. Call takers may select tree removal as
the service code, and then select the property
location for the problem.

Service Delivery Matrix

Select to configure a matrix of valid department,
provider, service category, and service code
combinations for equipment on the Service Delivery
Matrix page of the Equipment form. If selected, only
equipment with service delivery matrix flagged can be
selected.
Service Delivery Matrix is very restrictive
and requires more maintenance.
The equipment must be flagged as Service Delivery
Matrix in order for the lookups and KB search to be
filtered on the equipment.

Simplified SDM

Select to configure a simplified matrix of valid service
codes and suppliers for the equipment. This can be

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1107 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

done on any level, such as campus, building, floor,
room, or any other asset.

Event Log Type Filter - Select to restrict event types in the Event Log pop-up on the
Call Center form. See Defining event log type filters.
Allow Request to be Closed while WO is Open - Select to allow the call taker to close
the service request while the work order is open.
If unselected, a status change to Closed on service requests linked to open
work orders is not allowed.
Populate Customer Information on Unsuccessful Search - Select to always copy the
information used to search for a contact. For example, copy contact name or phone
number to the contact information section when the contact is not located through Find
Contact By.
Allow New Contact to be Saved on Customer Request - Select to allow a new
Contact Information record to be saved on the Service Request section of the Call
Center form.
Clear if only authorized callers are allowed, or if only addresses are stored on
the Contact Information record.
Use Department Structure Values Only Once - Select to use each value in the
department hierarchy of provider, service category and service code only once.
Provider, Service Category, and Service Code can appear in the department
structure only once. If you select a service problem code, Department, Provider,
Service Category, and Service Code are automatically populated based on the
associated department structure. Unselect to use a service code for more than one
department, service category, or provider.
To select options for the duplicate work order check on the Action Request section:
Enable Duplicate WO Check - Select to enable the system to check for duplicate work
orders. The duplicate work orders are displayed in Work Order on the Work Orders
popup on the Call Center form. When duplicate work orders exist, users can link to an
existing work order or create a new one.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1108 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Days to Show Closed WOs - Specify the number of days to show a work order when
the work order has closed.
Specify the Days to Show Closed WOs to reduce the number of possible
duplicate work orders to display for the equipment. Leave it blank to show only work
orders that are still open. Enter 0 to show work orders that were closed today or enter 1
for yesterday, etc.
Days to Show Open WOs - Specify the number of days to show the work order after
the work order was created. For example, enter 0 to show work orders created on the
current date only, enter 1 to show work orders created one day prior to the current date,
or leave it blank to include all open work orders.
WO Types - Specify the work order types to allow call takers to link to customer
requests. For example, enter Breakdown and Repairable Spare to allow the call takers
to select work orders of Breakdown and Repairable Spare type only. Enter null to allow
call takers to link customer requests to all work order types.
WO Statuses - Specify the work order statuses of which to allow call takers to link
customer requests.
Match WO Header Equipment Only - Select to display work orders when at least one
equipment record on the Call Center form matches the WO header equipment.
Match Equipment on WO Header or Equipment Tab - Select to display work orders
when at least one equipment record on the Call Center form appears on the WO
header or the Equipment page of the Work Orders form.
Match Service Category - Select to display work orders when Service Category
matches the service category of the customer request.
Match Service Problem Code - Select to display work orders when Service Problem
Code matches the service problem code of the customer request.
To select options for the Knowledge Base pop-up:
KB Results Per Page - Specify the number of knowledge base articles to display per
page after a knowledge base article search.
Show Service Category in Knowledge Base - Select to display the service category in
the knowledge base.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1109 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Show Provider in Knowledge Base - Select to display the provider in the knowledge
base.
To select options for the GIS Map Search pop-up:
Show Service Problem Code in Knowledge Base - Select to display the service
problem code in the knowledge base.
Highlight on Map - Select to have the option to highlight addresses on the map.
Identify Features - Select to have the option to identify features on the map.
Show Children - Select to have the option to show child equipment on the map.
View Nearest Address - Select to have the option to view the nearest address on the
map.
Schedule WOs - Select to have the option to schedule work orders from the map.
4. Click Save Record.

Specifying GIS attributes for the Call Center form
Select GIS layer attributes based on the customer address to display on the Additional Info
popup of the Call Center form.
To specify attributes for the Call Center form:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Select an organization, and then click the GIS Attributes tab.
3. Click Add Attribute. The system inserts a new Attribute Details record.
4. Specify this information:
Layer - Select the layer for which to choose attributes.
Attribute - Select the attribute to appear on the popup.
Alias - Enter an alias for the attribute. If your attribute name is PC_Parcid enter Parcel
Number in Alias.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1110 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Defining usability codes for equipment
Define usability codes for equipment to calculate penalties for facilities management reports.
Use equipment usability codes such as Available for Use or Unavailable to determine
equipment usability.
To define usability codes for equipment:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center Setup.
2. Click the Equipment Usability Codes tab.
3. Click Add Equipment Usability Code.
4. Specify this information:
Equipment Usability - Enter an equipment usability code, and then enter a description
of the equipment usability code in the adjacent field.
Penalty Factor - Enter a penalty factor for the equipment usability code.
Out of Service - Select if the equipment usability code is out of service.
5. Click Submit.

Processing customer requests
Edit contact information, search a GIS map to retrieve equipment for a work order, create a
new work order, link to an existing work order, record customer comments, query the
knowledge base search, or view bulletin board notices.

Entering customer requests
To enter customer requests:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1111 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization - Specify the organization of the request.
Status - Select the status for the request.
Source - Select the request source.
Type - Select the request type.
Class - Specify the class for the request linked to the work order from the service code.
Assigned To - Specify the Call Center employee assigned to the request.
4. Click Save Record.
See Viewing customer requests for work orders.

Performing a customer search
To perform a customer search:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Find Customer By - Choose one of the following options to search for a customer:

Option

Description

Phone

Select to locate a customer by phone number in the
system. The system searches all phone fields, not
just the primary phone.

Employee Code

Select to locate call center employees by their codes.

Last Name

Select to locate customers by their last names.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1112 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

First Name

Select to locate customers by their first names.

Employee Name

Select to locate call center employees by names.

Address

Select to locate customers by their address in the
system.

that contains - Enter the data for which to search. For example, if you chose to search
by Phone, enter the phone number for which to search.

• If exactly one match is found, the system populates the information in the
Customer Information section.
• If more than one match is found, select the correct match from the Customer
Information lookup.
• If no match is found, the system copies the search criteria information to the
Customer Information section.
4. Click Search to begin the search process.

Entering customer information
To enter customer information:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Click Create New Call Center Record.
3. Specify this information:
Name - Specify the customer’s first name, middle initial, and last name.
Company Name - Specify the company where the customer is employed.
Employee Code - Specify the code for the employee.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1113 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Address 1/Address 2
• Specify an address.
Click Copy to Work Address to copy Address 1 or Address 2 to the
work address on the action request.
• Specify the customer's City, State, and Zip Code.
• Specify the customer's Primary Phone, Secondary Phone, and Third Phone
numbers.
• Specify the customer's Primary Fax and Secondary Fax numbers, as well as the
Primary E-mail and Secondary E-mail addresses.
Click Launch E-mail to send an email message to the customer.
Address Alias - Specify a popular name for an address, such as Haywood Mall or
Cleveland Park.
Notes - Enter notes specific to the customer.
4. Choose one of the following options to save:
• Click Save as New to save the customer information to a new contact information
record. See Entering contact information.
• Click Save Changes to save any changes made to this customer’s information to
the existing contact information record.
Optionally, if you do not wish to save the information to a contact
information record, leave the information added and navigate to another section.
The new information is saved to the customer request, not to the contact
information record.

Viewing additional information
View information based on the GIS Attributes page of the Call Center Setup form and
Address 1 in the Customer Information section.
To view additional information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1114 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Select the customer request for which to view additional information, and then click the
Record View tab.
3. Click Additional Information.
4. View the additional information.
If the system finds more than one address match, select the address for which
to show attributes from the lookup, and then click Next to view the Additional Info
popup.
5. Click Close.

Viewing the event log
View the progress of a customer request or work order.
To view the event log:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Select the customer request for which to view the event log, and then click the Record
View tab.
3. Click Event Log.
4. Click Add Event.
5. Specify this information:
Date/Time - Enter a date and time for the event.
Event Log Type - Select a type for the event.
From Value - Enter a value.
To Value - Enter a value.
From Value and To Value are highly configurable and may represent any value
of your choice, for example, From Value could represent the email address of a sender,
and To Value could represent the email address of the recipient, etc.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1115 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Click Close. The system automatically populates User and Field.

Processing an action request
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Click New Record.
3. Choose one of the following options:

Option

Description

Work Address

Specify the address or intersection where work is
requested.

Landmark

Specify a popular landmark to retrieve an address if
the exact work address is not known.
If you copied Address 1 or Address 2 from
Customer Information, the address is inserted in
Work Address.
Click Additional Information to view additional
information based on the Work Address.

4. Specify this information:
Equipment - Specify the equipment on which to perform work. Equipment Org. and
Equipment Description are automatically populated.
Click View Customer Equipment to view and select from equipment
associated with this customer.
Click Additional Equipment to view and select from all equipment associated with this
customer. Multiple Equipment is automatically populated if more than 1equipment is
selected.
Service Problem Code - Specify the service problem code. Service Problem Code

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1116 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

can be automatically populated for the work order based on the selected knowledge
base article.
Temporary Fix Promise Date - Specify the date by which the work will be fixed
temporarily.
WO Class - Specify the class of the work order.
Equipment Usability - Specify the code identifying the equipment's usability.
Equipment Usability is used in penalty reports when penalty amounts depend
upon equipment usability.
Permanent Fix Promise Date - Specify the date by which the work will be fixed
permanently.
5. Click Perform Map Search.
6. Perform a GIS map search.
7. Choose one of the following options:

Option

Description

Return Equipment

Click to return equipment to the action request.

Return Work Order

Click to return a work order to the action request. The
customer request is associated with this existing work
order.

Close

Click to close the GIS Map Search page.

Associate Map

Click to attach the map to the customer request as a
.PDF file.

Update Work Address

Click to update the work address on the Call Center

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1117 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

form with the selected equipment. This is used when
the equipment is a physical address.

If you attach the map to the customer request, click the Documents tab to view
it. If your system does not have the GIS module, select Equipment from the list of
values.
8. Specify linear reference information. Linear Reference Details are displayed only if the
equipment record for which to create the work order is a linear equipment record.
9. Click Create WO.
10. Choose one of the following options:

Option

Description

Link work order to customer
request

Select the Work Order, and then click Link to
Request. Work Order, WO Class, Work Order Org.,
and WO Priority are automatically populated, and
the Duplicate check box is selected.

Generate a new work order

Click Create New WO. The new work order is
created and Work Order is automatically populated.

11. Click Save Record.

Adding remarks to the customer request
To add remarks to the customer request:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Remarks - Enter any remarks regarding the customer, work order, or request.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1118 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Copy to WO - Select to copy the remarks to the work order when you click Create WO.
If Copy to WO is unselected, the system saves remarks made to the customer
request only.
4. Click Save Record.

Viewing bulletin board notices
To view bulletin board notices:
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Click the Record View tab.
3. Click Expand/Collapse next to Bulletin Board.
4. Click Expand/Collapse next to the notices that have additional text to expand them.
Notices with knowledge base articles have titles that are links to display the knowledge
base articles.
5. View the bulletin board notice information.

Searching the knowledge base
1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Search Criteria - Specify the words to search for in the knowledge base.
Choose one of the following to specify search criteria results:

Option

Description

Keyword Search

Select to search the knowledge base for articles with
key words that match the criteria.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1119 of 2039

Full Text Search

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select to search the contents of the knowledge base
for the search criteria entered.

Department - Specify a department to narrow the search.
Provider - Specify a provider to narrow the search.
Service Category - Specify a service category to narrow the search.
4. Click Search.
The following fields are automatically populated with information from the Call
Center form:
• Search Criteria
• Keyword Search/Full Text Search
• Department
• Provider
• Service Category
• Service Problem Code.
5. Click the title of the article that closely matches your search.

• If you are familiar with an article and see the service problem code you need, click Add
Article to Customer Request next to the article. The article is added to the customer
request. The article, Department, Provider, Service Category, and Service Problem
Code are added to the Call Center form.
• Optionally, click Add Article to Favorites to add the article to My Favorites.
• Optionally, click Remove Article from Favorites to remove the article from My
Favorites.
• Optionally, click Print Article to print the article.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1120 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Viewing the results of the knowledge base search
View the results of the knowledge base article search, your favorite articles, or your most
recent search results.

Viewing the results summary
To view the results summary of a knowledge base search:
1. Perform a knowledge base search. See Searching the knowledge base.
2. Click Total Articles Found to view all articles from the search.
3. Click Articles w/ Service Problem Codes to view only the articles that have a service
problem code.

Viewing my recent searches
To view my recent searches:
1. Perform a knowledge base search. See Searching the knowledge base.
2. Click the saved search to display the article.
The system displays your 5 most recent searches during the period of login. The
search is cleared when you log out.

Viewing my favorites
To view my favorites:
1. Perform a knowledge base search. See Searching the knowledge base.
2. Click the title of the article to display the article.
If you log out, the system does not delete this list.

Viewing the top 10 knowledge base articles
To view the top 10 knowledge base articles:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1121 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Operations > Call Center > Call Center.
2. Click the Record View tab.
3. Click Expand/Collapse on Top 10 KB Articles.
4. Click the title of the desired KB Article to display the article in the Knowledge Base.

Managing service requests on the service request portal
Manage service requests on the service request portal. Create a new service request to
request maintenance on a piece of equipment or a location. Alternately, update open service
requests when a work order or case is not already associated to the service request.

Creating customer surveys
Insert, update, or delete customer surveys used to assess customer satisfaction,
responsiveness, and so forth.
To create a customer survey:
1. Select Operations > Customer Surveys.
2. Click Add Record.
3. Specify this information:
Customer Survey - Specify a unique code to identify the customer survey, and a
description of the customer survey.
Effective - Specify the date to activate or make the survey available.
Discontinue - Specify the date after which to discontinue the survey to make it
unavailable.
Survey Status - Specify A (Approved) status or U (Unfinished) status for the survey.
Survey Title - Specify a title for the survey.
Opening Message - Specify the message that will display when the customer survey is
opened.
Closing Message - Specify the message that will display when the customer survey is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1122 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

completed and closed.
Logo URL - Specify the URL file path to the logo to be displayed for the customer
survey.
From Email - Specify the email address from which the surveys will be sent.
Redirect URL - Specify the URL file path to which to redirect the users when they close
the customer survey and the screen is not refreshed nor are they redirected after the set
period specified in Redirect Timer.
Redirect Timer - Specify the time in seconds in which the user will be redirected to the
specified URL in Redirect URL after the user completes the survey.
4. Click Save Record.

Adding questions to customer surveys
Add, edit, or delete questions on a customer survey.
To add a question to a customer survey:
1. Select Operations > Customer Surveys.
2. Select the customer survey for which to add questions, and then click the Questions
tab.
3. Click Add Question.
4. Specify a description of the question.
5. Specify this information:
Sequence - Specify the sequential order the question will display in the customer
survey.
Type - Specify the question type, such as Check box or Radio Button.
Question Text - Specify the text for the question. This is the actual question text the
users will see.
6. Select the Out of Service check box to prevent the question from displaying in the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1123 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

customer survey.
7. Click Submit.
A Question Code is assigned to identify the question.

Adding answers to questions for customer surveys
1. Select Operations > Setup > Customer Surveys.
2. Select the customer survey for which to add answers to questions, and then click the
Questions tab.
3. Select the question code for which to add answers, and then click Add/Edit Survey
Answers.
4. Click Add Survey Answer.
5. Specify this information:
Survey Answer - Specify the answer to the question, and then enter a description of
the answer.
Answer Sequence - Specify the sequential order the answer will display in the options
when the question is answered on the survey.
6. Select the Out of Service check box to prevent the answer from displaying in the
options of answers to the question.
7. Click Submit.
An Answer Code is assigned to identify the answer.
8. Click Close.

Adding triggers to customer surveys
Add, updated, or delete triggers to be included in a customer survey.
To add triggers to a customer survey:
1. Select Operations > Customer Surveys.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1124 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the customer survey to which to add triggers, and then click the Triggers tab.
3. Click Add Trigger.
4. Specify this information:
Entity Trigger - Specify the entity trigger, such as Work Order or Call Center.
Status Trigger - Specify the status trigger.
Email Source - Specify the email source.
5. Click Out of Service check box to prevent the trigger from being included in the
customer survey.
6. Click Submit.

Reviewing results of customer surveys
Review the results of customer surveys once they have been completed.
To review the results of a customer survey:
1. Select Operations > Customer Surveys.
2. Select the customer survey for which to review results, and then click the Results tab.
3. View the information.

Updating long translations for customer surveys
Update the translations of the customer survey questions and answers.
To update long translations for a customer survey:
1. Select Operations > Customer Surveys.
2. Select the customer survey for which update long translations, and then click the
Translations tab.
3. Select the language for which to update long translations.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1125 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Translated Description - Specify the translations.
5. Click the Translated check box to indicate the text is translated.
6. Click Save Record.

Completing customer surveys
Complete customer surveys by recording answers to the questions, and submitting the
survey.
To complete a customer survey:
1. Select the URL provided in the request for survey completion.
2. Complete all of the survey questions.
3. Click Complete Survey.

Defining cases for case management
Create records for events which occur on the job that do not qualify as equipment and are
thus not tracked by a work order. Examples of these types of events are environmental spills,
accidents, or you may need to enter notes from your shift, or the history of non-work order
equipment. Define these events as cases.
To define cases for case management:
1. Select Operations > Case Management.
2. Click the Record View tab.
3. Click New Record.
4. Specify a description of the case.
5. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization of the case.
Equipment - Specify the equipment if related to the case.
Equipment is required to generate a follow-up work order for the case.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1126 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Type - Specify the type.
Department - Specify the department responsible for the case.
Status - Specify the status of the case. Specify Requested, Open, Closed, or
Cancelled.
6. Specify this case details information:
Class - Specify the class of the case.
Location - Specify the location of the event or case. If equipment is involved, specify
the location of the equipment.
Service Code - Specify the service code to associate with the event or case.
Area - Specify the area in which the case occurred.
Priority - Specify the priority to handle the case.
Cost Code - Specify the cost code.
Event Start Date - Specify the date the case event occurred.
Event End Date - Specify the date the case event ended.
Total Estimated Costs - Specify the total estimated costs to fix the event.
7. Select the Regulatory check box to indicate this case event is a regulatory requirement
or regulated event.
8. Select the Follow-up Required check box to indicate this case event requires follow-up
details.
9. Select the Hazardous Materials check box to indicate this case event involves
hazardous materials or an event related to hazardous materials.
10. Specify the follow-up work order details information if there is a related work order.
11. Specify the linear reference details information if the associated equipment is linear.
12. Specify this tracking details information:
Requested By - Specify the person requesting work on the case.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1127 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Date Requested - Specify the date work on the event was requested.
Responsible - Specify the identifying code of the employee responsible for the case
event.
Responsible Name - Specify the name of the employee responsible for the work on the
event.
Responsible E-mail - Specify the e-mail address of the person responsible for the work
on the event.
Assigned To - Specify the person assigned to complete the work on the event.
Assigned To Name - Specify the name of the person assigned to complete the work on
the event.
Assigned To E-mail - Specify the e-mail address of the person assigned to complete
the work on the event.
Sched. Start Date - Specify the scheduled start date of the work on the event.
13. Click Save Record. A unique code identifying the Case is assigned.

Defining tasks for case management
Define tasks or activities related to a case that must be performed to complete the case.
To define a task for case management:
1. Select Operations > Case Management.
2. Select the case for which to define a task, and then click the Tasks tab.
3. Click Add Task.
4. Specify a description of the task.
The From Service Code check box is selected if this task originated from a case
task associated to the service code entered on the Case Management page.
5. Specify this task details information:
Sequence - Specify the sequential order in which this task is to be performed if there

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1128 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

are more tasks to define for this case.
Step - Specify a sub-sequence for tasks that have the same sequential order.
Task Plan for Checklist - Specify an existing task plan checklist to attach to this task.
Estimated Costs - Specify the estimated costs of the task.
Priority - Specify the priority of the task.
6. Specify the tracking details information.
7. Specify the follow-up work order details information if there is a related work order.
The Calculated Costs Refresh Required check box is selected if the Refresh
Cost Data button must be selected to display the current actual costs of the follow-up
work order associated with this task.
8. Click Submit. A unique code identifying the Task No. is assigned.

Viewing event logs for case management
Major events such as status changes that occurs during the lifecycle of a case are stored on
the Event Log tab. View, update, or manually add events or remarks for a case.
To view the event logs for a case:
1. Select Operations > Case Management.
2. Select the case for which to view the event log, and then click the Event Log tab.
3. Perform one of the following actions:

Option

Description

View the event log

View the event log, and then close the screen.

Add a note to an existing record Select the record, and then add the note. Proceed to
step # 6.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1129 of 2039

Manually add an event

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Click Add Event. Proceed to step # 4.

4. Specify this event details information:
Event Type - Specify the type of event.
Date/Time - Specify the date and time of the event.
5. Specify any notes related to the event.
6. Click Submit.

Completing task checklists for case management
Specify answers to checklist items associated with tasks of a case.
1. Select Operations > Case Management.
You may also complete task checklist items on the Checklist tab of the Case
Management Tasks page.
2. Select the case for which to complete task checklists, and then click the Checklist tab.
3. Select the Task Sequence of the task for which you will answer checklist item
questions.
4. Answer the checklist item questions.
5. Optionally, you may add, edit, or view documents attached to task checklist items on the
Checklist tab. Click Add/Edit Checklist Item Documents for a selected checklist item
to add or edit associated documents.
6. Click Submit.

Defining corrective action for case management
Define corrective action related to a case. You can select one or several pieces of equipment
and RCM templates. The RCM tab of the selected equipment or templates can then be
updated with the collected failure modes and failure mitigation data of the case header. You
can also remove case related data to undo any changes made on the RCM tab. The RCM

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1130 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Mapping popup is also accessible from the Corrective Action tab, from there you can apply
the collected data to the selected Equipment or RCM Template.
1. Select Operations > Case Management.
2. Select the case for which to define corrective action, and then click the Corrective
Action tab.
3. Select one or more equipment.
4. Click Submit.

Defining failure modes for case management
Define failure modes related to a case. Based on the RCM level, specify the function,
functional failure, failure mode, and consequence categories that you can copy to the RCM
tab of the equipment screens or to an RCM template.
1. Select Operations > Case Management.
2. Select the case for which to define failure modes, and then click the Failure Modes tab.
3. Specify this information:
RCM Level - Specify the RCM Level of the organization of the case.
Function - Specify the function of the case.
Functional Failure - Specify the functional failure mode of the case.
Failure Mode - Specify the failure mode of the case.
4. Optionally, click Edit Failure Consequences to recalculate risk and update
consequences for defined failure modes or functional failures.
5. Click Submit.

Defining mitigation strategies for failure modes in case
management
Define mitigation strategies for failure modes of a case. Failure modes can be mitigated by a
PM Schedule, by condition monitoring, by modifications, or by all three.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1131 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Operations > Case Management.
2. Select the case for which to define mitigation strategies for failure modes, and then click
the Failure Mitigation tab.
3. Select the desired failure mode.
4. Click Submit.

Defining RCM mapping for case management
Map between functions and functional failures identified on the Failure Modes tab of the Case
Management screen and the target equipment or target RCM Template selected on the
Corrective Action tab. You can also create or exclude a new function or functional failure on
the target equipment.
1. Select Operations > Case Management.
2. Select the case for which to define RCM mapping, and then click the Corrective Action
tab.
3. Select a record to update.
4. Select the Create New check box.
5. Click Submit.

Defining root causes for case management
Define one or more sets of root causes for case management.
1. Select Operations > Case Management.
2. Select the case for which to define root causes, and then click the Root Causes tab.
3. Specify the required information.
4. Click Submit.

Completing task checklists for case management
Specify answers to checklist items associated with tasks of a case.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1132 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Operations > Case Management.
You may also complete task checklist items on the Checklist tab of the Case
Management Tasks page.
2. Select the case for which to complete task checklists, and then click the Checklist tab.
3. Select the Task Sequence of the task for which you will answer checklist item
questions.
4. Answer the checklist item questions.
5. Optionally, you may add, edit, or view documents attached to task checklist items on the
Checklist tab. Click Add/Edit Checklist Item Documents for a selected checklist item
to add or edit associated documents.
6. Click Submit.

Updating case management tasks
Update case management tasks or complete tasks assigned to you.
1. Select Operations > Case Management Tasks.
2. Select the case for which to update a task, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Specify the Tracking Details information:
Start Date - Specify the date the task was started.
Percent Complete - Specify the percentage of how close the task is to completion.
Date Completed - Specify the date the task was completed.
4. Select the Ready to Start check box to indicate that work on the task can be started.
5. Select the Started check box to indicate work on the task has started.
6. Select the Completed check box to indicate work is complete for the task.
7. Specify the Follow-up WO Details information.
8. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1133 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

9. Optionally, you may add, edit, or view documents attached to task checklist items on the
Checklist tab. Click Add/Edit Checklist Item Documents for a selected checklist item
to add or edit associated documents.
10. Optionally, you may add, or view documents associated with a selected case task on
the Documents List tab. Click Documents List to display a list of associated
documents or to add associated documents.

Brainstorming root causes for case management
Brainstorm root causes of a case and display the results in a fishbone diagram.
1. Select Operations > Case Management.
2. Select the case for which to brainstorm root causes, and then click the Fishbone tab.
3. Click the Brainstorm button to display the Fishbone Brainstorm popup.
4. Specify the required information.
5. Click Submit.

Glossary
ABC analysis
An inventory method that enables you to divide your stock inventory items into three groups
or classes: A, B, and C. ABC class assignments are used as selection criteria for a number of
material management functions, such as EOQ calculations, stock replenishment, repairable
spares, and physical inventory counts.

absolute
Indicates the values entered in Device Tolerance should be processed as absolute values.
The range at which the work order will pass or fail is calculated based on the following
equations:
Lower Work Order Device Tolerance = Standard - Lower Equipment Device Tolerance
Upper Work Order Device Tolerance = Standard + Upper Equipment Device Tolerance

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1134 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

For example, if the Standard is 25, and the Device Tolerance of the equipment is 5-5, the
reading must fall within a range of 20 to 30 for the work order to pass.

accounting code
A specific financial account for an organization's accounting records.

active layer
The layer of a GIS map in which a search originates.

additional charge
Added to pricing schedules in a multi-organization environment. Additional charges are added
to every work order that is completed for a customer contract.

address alias
A name (usually more popular name) for an address or place.

adjustment
Corrections made to charges invoiced to a customer. Adjustments can be in the form of an
extra charge for a damaged vehicle or a fee for equipment returned late.

alert tolerance
Indicates a reading that is acceptable, but is closer to the device tolerance limits than desired.
Alert tolerances fall within device tolerance limits and are always calculated as a percentage
value.
The lower and upper alert tolerances are calculated based on the following equations:
Lower Work Order Alert Tolerance = Standard - [(Alert Tolerance / 100) * (Standard - Lower
Equipment Device Tolerance)]
Upper Work Order Alert Tolerance = Standard + [Alert Tolerance / 100) * (Upper Equipment
Device Tolerance - Standard)]

archive

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1135 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The process in which the system will remove data from the viewable screens and into tables
for keeping.

asset
A sub-category of equipment. An asset is any physical object for which you want to store data
and create work orders, e.g., a pump, a car, an air conditioning unit, etc.

black swan
A black swan is an event with a low probability but a with a very high cost or consequence.

budget
Tools used to track expenses and set spending limits for specified time periods or items.
Budgets coordinate with existing inventory. They also can be defined for predetermined time
frames such as months, quarters, or years.
Important parts of a budget include budget calendar types, groups, terms, and structures.

buffer layer
The layer of a GIS map in which equipment for which you are searching resides if your search
involves multiple layers.

building maintenance program (BMP)
One of many policies and procedure templates within Behavioral Health Environment of Care
Manual written for the medical office, hospital, and other healthcare organizations. The
policies cover: Joint Commission (JCAHO or TJC) • CMS • HIPAA • CDC • AAAHC and more.

bulletin board
A database of information posted for the benefit of call center employees that lists companyrelated information, or any information that the call center employee needs to know
immediately.

bulletin board notice
An internal notice in the Call Center module.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1136 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

calibration
The process of comparing the performance of a piece of equipment to a known standard of
accuracy.

call center
A place where a customer calls, emails, faxes, or walks in, with a request for information. Call
Centers are staffed with employees who are trained to handle the requests that customers
have.

campaign
A list of jobs that may be performed on a given list of equipment as necessary to complete
work.

campaign event
A survey of equipment or job to perform work on equipment.

capEx
Costs incurred to acquire or maintain fixed assets that will have value beyond the current tax
year such as property, land, buildings, and equipment.

change notice
Used when specifying defective equipment from vendors, which the vendors replace without
charge to the customer for a certain period of time. Change notices can be recorded in forms
once they are issued from the vendor.

charge definition
The specification of a type of charge and any adjustments to the charge that will be invoiced
to a customer. The charges are defined on the customer and rental contracts.

checklist
The items listed are used to verify the progress or completion of tasks. The Checklist tab is on
the Task, Work Order, and Permit to Work screens.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1137 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

clause
A provision added to a customer contract and used on the customer contract definition.

compatible unit
A template to estimate routine, capital work and construction projects. Compatible units are
built with various combinations of labor, parts and materials, tools, and external services.
Compatible units forms the "building blocks" of the compatible units estimation process.

compatible unit accounting code
Codes used to categorize financial transactions associated with compatible units for reporting
of financial information.

condition
Indicates in what shape a piece of equipment is at this moment. Related to equipment
ranking.

confined space
Area determined as a confined space by OSHA regulations.

consequence
A component of the risk matrix setup and consequence categories. A consequence measures
the impact and severity of equipment or location failure. Examples include: No Incident,
Incident with Absence, and Injuries. For the Environment consequence category, example
consequences include: No Effect, Minor Spill, and Major Pollution.

consequence category
A component of the risk matrix setup. Categories allow you to separate consequences into
groups based on the level of impact the equipment failure will cause. Examples include:
Safety, Environment, Economic Loss, Company Image, and Profitability.

contract

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1138 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Purchasing contracts are tools used to detail agreements for parts. Details include such
information as suppliers, time-frames, and buyer facts as well as percentage discounts
arranged for each contract according to order or duration.

contract item
A piece of equipment, project, or work order. The Contract Items screen specifies the
equipment, project, or, work order included on the customer contract. Also provided are
details of the item including the organization that will invoice, contract template,
recommended exchange rate, and associated customer.

contribution %
Any monetary "credit" in percentage value contributed towards the total cost of a compatible
units estimate. Contribution amounts can be entered as a currency amount or as a
percentage value.

contribution total
Any monetary "credit" amounts to contributed towards the total cost of a compatible units
estimate. Contribution amounts can be entered as a currency amount or as a percentage
value.

cooling degree day
Cooling degree days measure the demand for energy needed to cool a building in a defined
region. When temperatures rise above a defined temperature for that region, buildings
typically require cooling. A cooling degree day is represented by the number of degrees that
the average temperature rises above the defined temperature.
For example, if the average temperature for a day in a region is defined as 85° F and the
degree days reference point temperature for that region is 65° F, the cooling degree (day)
value for that day is 20. Maintaining this temperature data for regions, helps us understand
the relationship between degree days, energy consumption, and the resulting carbon
emissions.
See heating degree day day and degree day reference point.

core part

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1139 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

A part you plan to repair on internal repair work orders, or send to a supplier to repair on
external repair requisitions. Often referred to as repairable core parts.

CU design project
Refers to the designation of a project to be used for the compatible units estimation/costing
process. May be associated with any number of design versions or CU estimates which
represent different ways of achieving the same outcome for a design project.

CU estimate
A combination of compatible unit library records detailing the components of the work to be
performed for a capital, construction or design project. The work components include any
combination of labor, parts and materials, tools, and external services that contribute to the
work, and will be used to generate a total estimate of the work to be performed.

CU standard rate
Compatible units standard rate will be considered when costs are calculated or determined for
a CU estimate. This value could vary from other hourly rates specified for a resource (trade or
standard crew).

customer charge
The costs calculated for all work performed for a customer contract. Customer charges
include the costs of all labor, parts, fixed charges, and all information specified on a pricing
schedule.

customer contract
An agreement with a customer detailing charge definitions, contract clauses, comments, and
invoice data. The contract also lists a definition of the charges included and excluded, and
applicable adjustments. Charges that can be invoiced are work order charges, sale of
services, fuel charges, energy charges, and periodic or usage based lease or rental charges.
A customer contract can involve a combination of multiple equipment, projects, and work
orders.

customer contract - work

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1140 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

An electronic document/record created for commercial service (or asset management
services) customers to specify how time, material, and labor costs are charged to a customer
for maintenance work. A customer contract can include fixed charge schedules and pricing
schedules for custom trade rates, part charges, additional charges, and the criteria by which
the system will identify work orders for which to accumulate and bill charges when generating
customer charges and invoices.

customer invoice
Generated/created to compile and assemble accounts receivable invoices for asset
management service customers, work order charges, and fixed payments.

customer rental
A contract created when a customer rents equipment. The rental price is listed on the contract
and is based on usage or a one-time charge. Customer invoices can be generated from
Customer Rental records. Only one piece of rental equipment can be listed on the contract.

customer request
Any need that the customer has and contacts the Call Center for help/results. There are three
types of customer requests:
1. Action Request (work order)
2. Information Request
3. Commenting on a service or new product/program

dataspy
A predefined view of a list of records or set of data.

decay curve
Records the anticipated condition score of an asset over a period of time or usage.

decision tree
Created for an equipment ranking to calculate a ranking score. A decision tree is comprised of

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1141 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

four levels which include a ranking level and up to three sub-levels, answers, formulas, and
normalization values.

default set
The default set of calibration test points that apply to calibration work orders/PM work orders.

degree day
Degree days help measure the heating and cooling requirements for buildings in specified
regions. Cooling degree days and heating degree days are based on the daily average
temperatures versus a degree day reference temperature for the region. Degree days are
used to track energy usage to analyze temperature for specific days.
See also cooling degree day, heating degree day, and degree day reference point.

degree day reference point
A degree day reference point represents the outside temperature at which no heating or
cooling of a building is typically required for a (geographical) region. The standard value is 65°
F (18.3° C). By establishing the degree day reference point, degree days can be further
categorized as cooling or heating degree days.
See cooling degree day and heating degree day.

depreciation
The reduction of the value of an asset as the result of wear and tear, age, or obsolescence.

design corrosion rate
The rate of corrosion is the speed at which any given material deteriorates in a specific
environment.

deviation
The difference between the Device Reading and the Standard.

device tolerance
The allowable deviation from the standard for the device being used to perform the calibration

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1142 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

measurement. A specified device tolerance indicates the range of variation permitted in
maintaining adherence to the standard for the device.

equipment
Entities for which you store data and create work orders. "Equipment" is a generic, allencompassing term for assets, positions, systems, and locations, which form a hierarchy of
equipment information:
1. Locations
2. Systems
3. Positions
For example, a motor, a line in a factory, a street, etc.

equipment ranking
A set of criteria defined for users to assess equipment criticality or risk to overall production. It
determines how a piece of equipment ranks or scores compared to another piece of
equipment. There are several different types of equipment ranking: reliability, condition, risk,
and criticality.

failure mode
The reason an asset fails to perform one or all of its primary functions, for example, if a fuel
pump is leaking it cannot supply adequate amounts of fuel from the gas tank to the engine of
the vehicle. Leaking would be one functional failure of the fuel pump. Other examples of
failure modes are clogged filters, electrical issues, and broken motor.
See functional failure.

fields to remember
This tab refers to the fields and their values that the system will remember and display as the
user moves from screen to screen.

fixed charge
Can be added to customer contracts to create a set price to be added to a customer invoice

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1143 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

based upon a specified due date.

FMECA
FMECA (Failure Mode Effects and Criticality Analysis) is an analysis applied to equipment in
order to determine the probability of failures and the consequences of those failures.

fraction slider dimensions
Determines whether the fraction slider displays imperial fractions that are 1/16th or 1/32nd of
an inch if the Metric Fraction Slider check box is cleared.

fugitive gas
The unintended or irregular gas leakage from an equipment or component.

functional failure
A failure or inability of an equipment to perform one or all of its primary functions, for example,
if a fuel pump cannot pump at maximum capacity this is a failure of one of its functions. If it
cannot distribute fuel under low pressure to the fuel injection system and carburetor, this is
another failure of the fuel pump to perform its function.
For this feature, to define functional failures of an asset, you must first define it's functions.
See also failure mode.

general ledger
A record of a company's accounts and associated transactions and balances. The term
general ledger refers to the internal financial record-keeping system for a company's financial
information.

GIS
An acronym for Geographical Information Systems.

hazard
A biological, chemical, physical, mechanical, environmental agent or situation that threatens
life, health, property, or the environment. In EAM hazards typically refer to workplace hazards

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1144 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

or potential hazards employees may encounter based on their workplace operations such as
falling when working at heights, drowning when welding under water, or electrocution when
working with high voltage equipment.

heating degree day
Heating degree days measure the demand for energy needed to heat a building in a defined
region. When temperatures fall below a defined temperature for that region, buildings typically
require heating. A heating degree day is represented by the number of degrees that the
average temperature falls below the defined temperature.
For example, if the average temperature for a day in a region is defined as 30° F and the
degree days reference point temperature for that region is 65° F, the heating degree (day)
value for that day is 35. Maintaining this temperature data for regions, helps us understand
the relationship between degree days, energy consumption, and the resulting carbon
emissions.
See cooling degree day and degree day reference point.

HIPAA confidentiality
A federal regulation protecting patient health information and the equipment that safeguard
this confidential information.

incident request
A record created when a hotel guest or employee contacts the front desk to report a problem
or to get information. Work orders can then be generated from these requests when it is
necessary to take action.

increment
The increment specifies the numeric interval of which a device reading must be evenly
divisible. For example, if you specify an Increment of 5, you must enter a Device Reading
that is evenly divisible by 5, such as 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, etc.

install GL
A general ledger accounting code associated with the installation of an asset. It is used to
organize transactions when financial statements are prepared.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1145 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

instrument type
A series of one or more instruments requiring and/or used for calibration that are linked
together.
Standard applied to: An instrument to which a standard is applied during calibration.
Accessory: An instrument that is secondary or subordinate within a loop.
Reading taken from: An instrument from which a reading is taken during calibration.

integer slider
Part of the mobile user interface to enter numbers on a checklist using sliders. It displays the
number range without decimals.

isolation block
The minimum area of a distribution network surrounding a pipe that can be isolated by closing
a set of valves.

isolation dependent block
An isolation block that is connected to the distribution network only through another isolation
block. That is, a dependent block is downstream from another isolation block that acts as the
supply source for the dependent block.

isolation main
A type of pipe that moves water through a distribution network; usually in a unidirectional
manner (starting from a source).

isolation point
Indicates at which areas the equipment can be isolated from its energy sources to prevent
injury from unexpected startup. Equipment should be isolated from its energy sources during
the lockout/tagout procedure of the permit to work process. Examples of isolation points are
circuit breaker, valve, or equipment switch.

kit

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1146 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

A collection created from a stock of parts within a store. When a kit is built, component parts
are removed from inventory and the kit itself is added to inventory. Kits are individually
identified by a unique Lot number.

knowledge base
A database of information from which call center employees can search for needed
information, to solve a customer's problem or request. Within a knowledge base there are
articles, links to websites that offer more information, and directions for call center employees
to follow.

lockout/tagout
OSHA regulations on lockout/tagout procedures for equipment, which require that machines
are properly shut down and that they are not restarted until service or maintenance on the
machine is completed. Tagging and locking out (e.g., securing that mechanical equipment is
disconnected from to electricity) while employees are performing required maintenance and
work orders, prevents bodily injury and death by employees who might otherwise startup
equipment while maintenance is being performed.

lockout box
A physical location for employees to safely store all the keys used for a lockout/tagout
procedure during which mechanical equipment is disconnected from electricity. The keys are
safely stored and locked to prevent unexpected startup of the equipment while employees are
performing maintenance. The unexpected startup of equipment while maintenance is
performed could cause bodily injury or death to employees performing the work. The keys are
safely stored and locked during this time to prevent such injuries or fatalities.

loop
A series of one or more instruments requiring and/or used for calibration that are linked
together.

maintenance pattern
A schedule of predefined jobs used to perform a preventive maintenance cycle. A
maintenance pattern tells how the system should generate work orders for the maintenance
pattern, and whether the resulting PM work order generation is based primarily on a time

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1147 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

interval (weekly, monthly, annually), or on a meter interval (ex. 3000 miles) or both.

Markov chain
A Markov chain is a stochastic model used to determine the likelihood that the equipment will
be in a certain state or health after it has reached a certain state or health in a previous
iteration of the chain. The changes to the state of the equipment are called transitions and the
probabilities that the equipment moves from one state to another are called transition
probabilities. The initial state of the equipment is assumed to be perfect health.

maximum slider value
The ending or highest value of the integer slider.

metric fraction slider
A check box that, when selected, determines whether the fraction slider displays with 10
decimals in the metric system. Otherwise, it displays with imperial numbers.

minimum slider value
The starting or lowest value of the integer slider.

min/max validation
This check box allows users to enter only values that fall within the specified minimum and
maximum slider values.

MTBF
Mean time between failure (MTBF) is the predicted elapsed time between inherent failures of
a equipment during normal operation. MTBF is used to determine asset reliability, or how
often the asset fails.

MTTR
Mean time to repair (MTTR) is the predicted time to repair equipment that is out of order.
MTTR is used to determine an asset maintainability, or how easy it is to maintain the asset
after it fails.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1148 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

nonconformity
A defect or deviant condition that affects an asset. Examples of nonconformities include
decay, corrosion, cracks, and leaks.

normalization value
Acceptable value ranges for levels in the decision tree for which to determine equipment
reliability rankings.

O & M GL
objective
A specific result that your organization plans to achieve. Objectives specify the expected
results and expected result dates. For example, an objective can be to reduce electrical
consumption by 10% in fiscal year 2014 at Greenville, SC plant.

OEM site/system ID
A site and/or system identification for service companies and original equipment manufacturer
of an asset.

output
The reading or measurement produced by the calibration measurement at a calibration point.
The output can also be the expected reading if the output unit of measure is different from the
input unit of measure.

output range
The allowable deviation from the standard for the output that indicates the range of variation
permitted to adhere to the standard for the test point.

percentage
Indicates the system processes the values entered in Device Tolerance as percentages.
The range at which the work order will pass or fail is calculated based on the following

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1149 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equations:
Lower Work Order Device Tolerance = Standard - [Standard * Lower Equipment Device
Tolerance / 100]
Upper Work Order Device Tolerance = Standard + [Standards * Upper Equipment Device
Tolerance / 100]
For example, if the Standard is 25, and the Device Tolerance of the equipment is 5-5, the
reading must fall within a range of 23.75 to 26.25 for the work order to pass.

permit to work
Details the hazards and precautions required to remove or prevent a potential hazard to your
employee's safety.

piping class
Piping class defines the type of material used in the construction of a pipeline. A piping class
defines the material standard being used. Using the piping class reference table, the schedule
and the wall thickness can be derived for a given nominal diameter for a pipeline.

policy
Guidelines created by your organization to record a corporate or enterprise-wide initiative. For
example, this enterprise is committed to reducing energy consumption and thereby reducing
its carbon footprint.

power factor %
The ratio of the real power used to perform work and the apparent power supplied to the
circuit.

precaution
A measurement your operation or employees can take to prevent workplace hazards which
have the potential to cause bodily injury and even death. Examples of precautions include
wearing a safety harness to prevent falling when working at heights, wearing proper
equipment to prevent drowning, or switching off electricity to prevent electrocution.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1150 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

precision
Indicates the maximum number of decimals allowed to the right of the decimal point for a
reading.
You can enter a number with fewer than the maximum number of decimals allowed
to the right of the decimal point. The system assumes there are zeros at the end of the
specified number.
The precision indicates the degree of refinement with which the calibration is performed or the
calibration measurement is stated.

probability
A component of the risk matrix setup. Probability measures the likelihood or expectation of
when an equipment or location failure will occur. Examples include: Less than a year, 1 to 5
years, 10 to 20 years, and More than 20 years.

process range
The reading or measurement produced by the calibration measurement process at a
calibration point.

process tolerance
The allowable deviation from the standard for the process that indicates the range of variation
permitted to adhere to the standard for the test point.

QR code
QR code is an abbreviation of Quick Response Code. It resembles black squares arranged in
a square grid on a white background. The image is read by an imaging device such as a
camera, and links users to a specific URL.

ranking index
An index of a range of assigned values the system uses when a ranking score has been
calculated for equipment using the decision tree formulas.

ranking score

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1151 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The calculated score by which the system determines equipment criticality and reliability.

ranking survey
A survey for selected equipment to calculate the Ranking Score and the Ranking Index.
The system calculates the Ranking Score using the formula of the ranking levels and the
answers entered on the ranking survey.

RCM
Reliability Centered Maintenance (RCM) is the ability to define either a risk assessment or a
risk analysis for a location, a system, a position, or an asset. A risk assessment is defined by
the functions of equipment, the functional failures, and the consequences of those failures. A
risk analysis is similar to a risk assessment but includes the definitions of failure modes, and
is a more detailed research analysis of the equipment's risks.

regulatory account
A single, specific financial account used for an organization's accouting records as defined by
the accounting structure of the organization, or an external regulatory agency such as a
federal agency.

reliability ranking
A type of equipment ranking. Reliability refers to the ability of an asset to perform its intended
function. Reliability ranking is a set of criteria used to determine how critical a piece of
equipment is to a job while also analyzing that equipment's reliability to perform as intended.
Other types of equipment ranking include condition, risk, and criticality.

remove GL
A general ledger accounting code associated with the removal of an asset. It is used to
organize transactions when financial statements are prepared.

replicable CU design project
A type of project used for compatible units estimation. It is intended for use as a project
template, not for the purposes of reconciling completed project costs.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1152 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

right of way
A right of way consists of one or more routes. Examples of right of ways include the Eastern
Parkway Line (NY City Subway) and Interstate 40.

risk analysis
A feature of reliability centered maintenance (RCM). A risk analysis examines the higher level
risks associated with equipment failures, that are often discovered while performing a risk
assessment. The risks analysis process evaluates the intended functions of the equipment,
potential equipment failures, the consequences of those equipment failures, and definitions of
failure modes. It is usually performed on lower positioned equipment in the equipment
hierarchy.

risk assessment
A feature of reliability centered maintenance (RCM). A risk assessment gauges the risks
associated with equipment failures including the functions of the equipment, the failures, and
the consequences of those equipment failures. A risk assessment is usually performed on
locations and equipment positioned higher in the equipment hierarchy, such as storage
location or a production line.

risk level
A component of the risk matrix setup. A risk level refers to a value assigned to equipment or a
location in the event the equipment fails to perform its intended function. The risk level value
is assigned after a risk assessment or risk analysis is completed. Examples of equipment
failure risk levels include: Desirable, Undesirable, Acceptable, Unacceptable, and
Catastrophic.

risk matrix
A risk matrix helps organizations identify risks with equipment failures, and helps prioritize
those risks as levels by estimating the probability of occurrence and the severity of impact if
the failures occur. It is a visual representation defined by (equipment failure) consequence
categories, consequences, probabilities, and risk levels for the equipment.
It is a component of the reliability centered maintenance (RCM) process which enables users
to view the risk assessment and risk analysis for equipment in a hierarchy.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1153 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

See probability, risk analysis, consequence category, and consequence.

route
A route belongs to a right of way and may itself consist of one or more linear segments.
Examples are track 1 and 2 of the train line and the east and west bound lanes of a highway.

salvage GL
segment
Segments are pieces of equipment that are part of routes. Segments are usually linear
themselves, but can also be point assets, for example in cases where a switch is not defined
with a length.

sequence
The chronological order of work to be completed on a maintenance pattern based on either a
time or meter-based interval for releasing work orders.
In calibrations it indicates the order in which test points should be calibrated.

set
A number assigned to identify a group of test points.

sets and consists
A set is a group of equipment that are physically attached to each other for a functional
reason, such as train cars. A consist is made up of one or more sets. An example of a consist
is a full train that is made up of various sets of grouped train cars.

span
A span work point. Refers to the work that occurs over a linear length/distance (span) for a
compatible units estimate. An example: digging a trench for underground pipes.

span length
Related to span work point. The length between the work point and the from work point. Span

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1154 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

length is measured in feet, kilometers, miles, or meters.

standard
The ideal reading for a piece of equipment against which actual readings should be
measured. Standard also refers to the parts used to perform a calibration.

standard sheet
Commonly called a specification or spec sheet in the construction/utility industries. A
document describing the rules, conditions and/or widely accepted plans/blueprints/drawings
for how various work should be completed.

statement of conditions
A statement of conditions on healthcare equipment as required by The Joint Commission to
document that a fire safe environment of care and compliance is maintained.

strategy
Utilized to record a corporate or organizational strategic initiative such as the corporate
commitment to reduce electrical consumption by an amount and a date. The strategy does
not specify how this will be accomplished. For example, a strategy can be to reduce electrical
consumption by 35% before fiscal year 2014. To accomplish the strategic initiative, the
following can be done:
• Average 35% reduction across the enterprise.
• Minimum reduction of 25% per facility.

target
The focus of an objective or initiative.

test point
The actual point (calibration point) at which the accuracy of the equipment is tested to the
known standard. A piece of equipment that requires calibration may consist of numerous test
points.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1155 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

test point range
The numeric values indicating the acceptable range for the test point. The values identify the
upper and lower limits of the standard for the test point. The test point reading must fall within
this range for the test point to pass.

trace
The act of selecting multiple pieces of equipment along a linear right of way, route, or
segment to include on multiple equipment work orders. The equipment available for selection
is based on the defined relationships between linear right of ways, routes and segments, and
any defined branch points for crossing over to these equipment records. The action of
selecting this equipment is called tracing.

UMDNS code
A code which identifies a healthcare asset in the Universal Medical Device Nomenclature
System™ (UMDNS) which is a standard international nomenclature and computer coding
system for medical devices.

vintage year
In accounting, vintage refers to the age of a capitalized asset as it relates to the year it was
created.

work point
A location at which work will be performed for a compatible units estimate and design project.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1156 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EAM system administrator tasks
This guide contains procedures for configuring the application modules. It is intended to be
used by system administrators, implementation consultants, product architects, and support
specialists.

• Configuring your system

• Configuring the fleet management

• Setting up security for your system

• Managing object archival

• Configuring the Interface

• Web service prompt execution

• Setting up basic module data

• Installation parameters

• Managing data collection

• Organization options

• Managing your data

• Default screen locations

System configuration
This section outlines procedures for setting up HxGN EAM to manage physical and
maintenance functions more efficiently.
This section describes HxGN EAM functions that only a system administrator has
rights to perform.

Defining installation parameters
Define new installation parameters to tailor the system to your working environment. Set up
system-wide defaults to determine settings such as whether department security is on or off
or the number of days before a password expires for users. HxGN EAM installation sets up
default values, also known as "installation codes" or "installation parameters." You can also
edit existing installation parameters.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1157 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Only qualified HxGN EAM system administrators should create installation
parameters, with specific guidance and approval from your Infor consultant. Contact your Infor
consultant to create installation parameters.
1. Select Administration > Security > Install Parameters.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Install Parameter - Specify a unique code identifying the installation parameter, and
then provide a description of the installation parameter in the adjacent field.
You cannot define fixed install parameters or assign new install parameters to a
module.
Value - Specify the default value for the parameter.
4. Click Save Record.

Setting up installation parameters
Update installation parameters as required to perform normal operations.
1. Select Administration > Security > Install Parameter Setup. Installation parameter
values are displayed in update mode.
2. Update the installation parameter value, and then click Save Record.

Understanding entities
Entities are the fundamental core of the system. Configuration of entities and their respective
codes determines what functions of the system are available and to which users. An entity is
a table of related data pertaining to specific system functions.
There are three kinds of entities in the system: Status Entities, Type Entities, and Code
Entities. The system identifies entities as Extended Codes, but they are identified to users
as User Codes. When you install HxGN EAM, all Extended Codes and User Codes are
identical. Tailor the system to an organization by adding new user codes on the System
Codes form.
Classes divide entities into groups that share certain characteristics. For example, you can

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1158 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

subdivide an entity into classes to define a separate list of custom attributes for each class.

Defining system codes
Define system codes to tailor the system to the entity for business process flows. You can
also edit existing user codes.
We strongly recommend creating new classes, rather than system codes, to
subdivide "type" entities when possible.
1. Select Administration > Setup > System Codes.
2. Select the type of Setup for which to define system codes.
3. Specify the For Entity for which to define system codes.
4. Click Add User Code.
5. Specify this information:
User Code - Specify a new user code to represent one of the system codes.
System Code - Specify the system code representing the user code.
Description - Specify a description of the user code.
Weight - Optionally, specify the weight factor for consideration when calculating the
priority of work orders. This field is used by the work order calculated priority alert which
runs on a periodic basis to recalculate Calculated Priority field on the work order.
This feature is only available for the OBCR, JBTP, RCTP, and CPDW entities.
Category Name - Select the category name for the user code and entity to prioritize
hospitality work orders.
This feature is only available for the JBTP entity when @HMSINT install
parameter is set to YES.
Adjustment - Specify the adjustment factor for consideration when calculating costs
associated with labor when performing compatible units cost estimation.
For example, if you select an adjustment value of 1.5 here for this specific user
code/system code combination, during the cost calculation process, the labor costs will

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1159 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

be multiplied by 1.5 (or 150%).
In context, this could mean if you select 1.5 adjustment value for user code SAND with
system code L01, the cost of performing the same unit of work on a site with sand type
conditions would be 1.5 times higher than the cost of performing the same unit of work
on a site with soil type conditions.
This adjustment option is only available for the CUAJ (Compatible Units
Adjustment) entity.
System Default - Select one of the user codes as the system code if there are multiple
user codes for one system code. This code is used as the default value for the Type or
Status entity.
Out of Service - Select to designate system codes as out of service.
Icon - Select the color of the icon to indicate the importance of the user code.
This functionality is currently only available for the PWRS (Risk) and JBPR
(WO Priority) entities on the screen.
Icon Path - Specify the URL path to the image you would like to use for the icon.
Accepted icon paths begin with http://, //, or \\, or https://.
The recommended size of the image is 16 x 16 pixels and file type extension
should be .gif, .jpg, or .png.
Color - Select the color to represent the status of the reservation for this user code.
This color feature is currently only available for the RNST (Reservation Status)
entity on the screen.
GIS Dispatch Ranking - Specify the GIS dispatch ranking value for the icon you
specified in the previous steps, to represent a work order priority on the GIS Map WO
Dispatch screen. This ranking is used when there is more than one work order at the
same location on the map. It determines the icon displayed on the map to represent the
location of the work order with the highest priority code.
On the GIS Map WO Dispatch screen the highest priority code is usually
assigned the lowest GIS dispatch ranking value.
6. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1160 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating and modifying screens
Create new screens or modify existing screens by associating icons with screens and setting
background-printing parameters for reports.
To view a list of current screens in the system, run the Function List Report.
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Screens.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Screen - Specify a unique six-character mnemonic code for the new screen, and then
enter a brief description of the screen in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the screen.
Form Type - Select the form type for this screen.
Parent - Specify the screen on which this new screen is based.
Last Value - Specify the entity used by the system to "remember" the primary key field
in this screen.
Icon - Specify the name of an existing icon file to associate an icon with the screen.
Report - Specify a report that prints (in the background) using the selected data on a
screen. Also, specify background report parameters to use with this functionality.
Employee Filter - Specify the employee type to apply to the screen.
URL Path - Specify the URL location of the screen.
Specify up to three parameters (:user, :password, or :org) in the URL Path to
pass values to the new screen. These values must be entered in lowercase.
Example: http://yourapp.yourserver.com?USERID=:user&PWD=:password
Open URL in New Window - Select to display the URL in a new browser window.
Mobile Deep Link Mapped Screen - Optionally, select the related screen of the
opposing mobile application. This field supports deep linking between the EAM Transit

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1161 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and Digital Work apps.
Invoke Dataspy - Select to allow users to utilize dataspy filters on this screen.
Startup Action - Select the stage of the query process in which the screen opens:
• No Action - Select to open the form without running a Dataspy or displaying
records.
• Run Dataspy - Select to open the form with the default Dataspy and to highlight
the first record in the list.
• Remember Dataspy - Select to open the form with the last remembered Dataspy
(within the current session) with quick filter and quick sort for the form and to
highlight the first record in the list.
• Remember Last Value - Select to open the form with the last remembered value
for the screen.
Startup View - Select the view in which the screen will display when initially
accessed, e.g., select Split View to indicate the screen will open in split view
format, select List View to indicate the screen will open in list view format, or
select Record View to indicate the screen will open in record view format.
Split View Display - Select how the fields are displayed on the screen in the
summary grid:
• Standard - Fields are displayed in the standard format, including the code and
description fields, and icons.
• Grid Fields - Fields are displayed based on the dataspy settings. The code and
description fields are not displayed
• Mixed - Fields are displayed in a combination of standard and grid field settings,
including the code and description fields, and three fields from the dataspy
settings.
Auto Refresh Timer (seconds) - Specify the time frequency in seconds in which
the screen will automatically refresh. In other words, enter 15 to indicate the
screen will refresh every 15 seconds.
This feature only works in full list view mode for List View and Record

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1162 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View screens and user-defined grids.
4. Click Save Record.
After defining a new screen, you must authorize users to use the new screen. See
Granting screen-level permissions to user groups.

Changing text on a specific screen
Change text on a specific screen if the text usage is in the wrong context for your local
language.
The changes you make might be overwritten during system upgrades or by global
substitutions.
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Screens.
2. Select the screen for which to change text, and then click the Text tab.
3. Select the record for which to change text.
4. Specify this information:
Text - Change the text as necessary.
5. Click Submit.

Defining URL parameters for custom screens
Define how parameter values are passed to custom screens and tabs.
URL parameters designate locations and directories for schemas, servlets, documents, and
so forth that must be set for many HxGN EAM (Oracle Forms) and HxGN EAM add-ons and
features to work properly.
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Screens.
2. Select the screen for which to define URL parameters, and then click the Record View
tab.
3. Click Add URL Parameter.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1163 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Parameter Name - Specify a unique code identifying the parameter. The system
automatically populates Sequence and selects System.
Parameter Value - Specify a URL for the parameter.
Active - Select if the URL parameter is active for the screen or tab.
5. Click Submit.
6. Click Close.

Defining custom tabs for screens
Define custom tabs for existing screens. Specify an external URL to transfer values from the
current screen. The URL information displays inside the tab in the application.
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Screens.
2. Select the screen for which to define custom tabs, and then click the Custom Tabs tab.
3. Click Insert Custom Tab.
4. Specify a description for the new custom tab. A Tab Code is automatically generated.
5. Specify this information:
Type - Specify the custom tab type. URL is the recommended setting because it is the
only supported value.
Trusted Site - Select to allow access to the parent frame.
URL - Specify the URL for the custom tab.
6. Click Submit.

• The key values are automatically passed from the header of the current form to
the URL. This feature displays only information related to the selected record.
• To define URL parameters for custom screens or tabs, click Define URL

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1164 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters.

Remembering fields for forms
Determine which fields will have their values remembered when a user navigates away from
the form. Selected fields to remember may consist of Work Order, Equipment, and so forth.
When the user selects a Work Order and navigates away from the Work Orders form to
another form such as Assets form, the system remembers the Equipment value and
displays it on the Assets form.
The Fields to Remember feature is only supported for forms that have a Last Value
Entity populated on the Record View page of the Screens form.
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Screens.
2. Select the screen for which to remember fields, and then click the Fields to Remember
tab.
3. Click Add Field.
4. Specify this information:
Field - Specify the field of the value for the system to remember.
Entity - Specify the entity of the value for the system to remember.
5. Click Submit.

Associating Dataspies to users by screens
Add users to associate Dataspies to additional users on selected screens. Once a Dataspy is
associated with a user on a specific screen, the Dataspy is available to the user whenever
they open and view the screen.
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Screens.
2. Select the screen for which to associate users to a Dataspy, and then click the
Dataspies tab.
3. Select the non-global Dataspy record to which to add user associations on this screen,
and then click Add Users to open the Add Users pop-up window.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1165 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Select one or more users to receive a copy of this Dataspy for the selected screen.
5. Optionally, select the Set as Default check box to set the Dataspy as the default for the
selected user(s) on this screen.
If the selected Dataspy is marked as a global Dataspy, select one or more
users to receive the Dataspy as their default Dataspy on this screen.
6. Click Submit to close the Add Users pop-up window.
If the amount of time it takes to run a Dataspy exceeds the value (time) set for
install parameter DSSLTIME, the Slow check box is automatically selected. If a Dataspy
has been flagged as slow, when that Dataspy is run, the columns from the Dataspy are
loaded however the data is not loaded. You have the option to click Run to load the
data, or to modify the Dataspy to improve performance. Contact your system
administrator for more information.

Viewing Dataspies associated to screens
View all Dataspies and their associated users on selected screens.
You cannot create a new Dataspy record, nor delete an existing Dataspy record on
this screen. You can only associate users to the Dataspies on the screens.
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Screens.
2. Select the screen for which to view Dataspy records, and then click the Dataspies tab.
3. View the Dataspy details including owners of the Dataspy on the selected screen.
4. Optionally, select the Default check box to make this the default Dataspy for all users
on this particular screen.
5. Click Submit.
To display the selected Dataspy details on the selected screen for other users, click the
Add Users button to open the Add Users pop-up window.

Creating user defined screens
Create, modify, delete, and view user defined screens.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1166 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Setup > User Defined Screens.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify a unique six-character mnemonic code for the new user defined screen in the
Screen Name field, and then enter a brief description of the screen in the adjacent field.
For user defined screens, the second letter of the screen name must be a U,
the length of the screen name cannot exceed six characters, and the screen name
cannot contain special characters.
4. Specify this Screen Details information:
Table Name - Specify a unique code identifying the table to which the user defined
screen belongs. The table name cannot contain special characters.
For tables that are generated a *U5* prefix is automatically added to the table
name. For example, if you create a table called "MyTable", the generated table name
will be "U5MYTABLE".
Entity - Specify a unique code identifying the entity to which the user defined screen
belongs. The entity name cannot contain special characters.
5. Optionally, select the Tab check box to indicate this user defined screen is a tab on
another screen. If selected, you must specify the Parent Screen to which the tab
belongs.
6. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to prevent the new user defined screen
from being displayed in user defined screen lookups or in the grids for the Menus and
Scanner Menus tabs on the User Groups form.
7. Click Save Record.
Add fields to the new user defined screen on the Fields tab. Once you add
fields, click the Generate link button to generate the new user defined screen. The
screen is compiled, and it is added to the list of screens you can make available on the
menu.

Defining fields for user defined screens
Create, modify, or delete fields for user defined screens.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1167 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > User Defined Screens.
2. Select the user defined screen for which to define fields, and then click the Fields tab.
3. Click Add Field.
4. Specify this information:
Field Name - Specify the name for the field. The field name must be unique and cannot
be a database reserved word or contain special characters.
Description - Specify a description of the field.
Field Label - Specify the boiler text for the field. The default Field Label is equivalent to
the Field.
Sequence - Specify a numeric value for the sequence. Fields are displayed in
ascending order by their sequence.
Field Type - Specify the field type. The default Field Type is Alphabetic. Specify the
default Field Type as one of the following options:
• Alphabetic
• Numeric
• Date
• Date Time
• Time
• Free Format Text
• Check box
Field Length - Specify the maximum character length if the field type is
Alphabetic.
Total Digits - Specify the total number of digits allowed including decimal places
for the field if the Field Type is Numeric.
Decimal Places - Specify the number of digits allowed after the decimal for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1168 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

field if the Field Type is Numeric.
Computed Data - Specify the computed data statement for the field when Field
Type is Computed Value.
Source Field - Specify the source field if the value will be retrieved from another
database table.
Query Code - Specify the query code to define the list of values available for
selection from the LOV. When a query code is specified for a field, the field
behaves as an LOV.
Parent Screen Key Field - Specify the key field of the parent screen of this field if
the user defined screen for which you are defining this field is the tab on a parent
screen.
5. Optionally, select the Is Primary Key check box to indicate that there cannot be another
record with the same value in that field. Field types of Free Format Text, Check box,
Date, Date Time, and Time cannot be selected as primary key fields.
6. Optionally, select the Is Nullable check box to allow users to leave the field blank.
Is Nullable is a protected check box that cannot be edited when a field is
selected as a primary key.
7. Optionally, select the Uppercase check box to enforce uppercase characters for the
field value when the field type is Alphabetic.
8. Optionally, select the Computed Value check box to indicate the defined field will use
the valued entered in the Computed Data field to calculate the field value.
9. Optionally, select the Retrieved Value check box to indicate the value for this field will
be populated from a database table or other screen using the Retrieved Value Query.
If selected, the Source Field and Retrieved Value Query are required as well.
Retrieved Value Query must return one record and one column only.
10. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to prevent the field from being
displayed in user defined screen lookups.
11. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1169 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining custom fields information
Tailor the system for the working environment by adding custom fields to forms.

Defining custom fields
Define an unlimited number of new fields, and attach a selection of these fields to any class of
an entity, such as an equipment class or a purchase order class, or to an entity, such as all
equipment or all purchase orders.
Specify valid lookup values for a custom field using the Associate Custom Fields form.
1. Select Administration > Custom Fields > Custom Fields.
2. Click Add Custom Field.
3. Specify this information:
Custom Field - Specify a unique code identifying the field, and then enter a description
of the field in the adjacent field. The description is the text that the user will see for the
custom field.
Type - Select one of these field types:
• Character - Any alphanumeric characters.
• Numeric - Numeric values.
• Date Field - Date values in DD-MON-YYYY format.
• Date/Time - Date and time values in DD-MON-YYYY HH24:MI format.
• Code + Description - Unique code and a description of the code.
• System Entity - Code description of an HxGN EAM entity. The system enables
the System Entity field.
System Entity - Specify the code description of the entity for which to define
custom fields.
Minimum Value / Maximum Value - Specify the range of values users can enter.
4. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1170 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To view translations information, select the custom field for which to view
translations, and then click Translations.

Defining lookup values for custom fields
Define lookup values for custom fields of the "Code+Description" type.
1. Select Administration > Associate Custom Fields > Associate Custom Fields.
2. Specify this information:
Entity - Specify the entity for which to define a lookup value.
• Select the custom field Line for which to define lookup values.
• Click Define Lookup Values.
• Click Add Value.
Value - Specify the value for the lookup.
Description - Specify a description of the value.
Description field is only enabled if the Lookup Type is Code+Description.
Out of Service - Select if the lookup value is out of service.
3. Click Submit.

Associating custom fields with entities or classes
Fields associated with a class appear only when the class has been specified in the regular
class field. Fields associated with an entity (class is *) always appear on screens based on
that entity, whether or not a class has been specified.
1. Select Administration > Custom Fields > Associate Custom Fields.
2. Specify the entity to which to associate the custom field.
3. Click Add Custom Field.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1171 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Line - Specify the desired order for displaying the custom fields. Fields associated with
the entity (to class *) are shown first, and then the fields associated with the particular
class of the data are shown.
Custom Field - Specify the code of the custom field.
UOM - Specify the unit of measure.
Lookup Type - Select one of the following lookup types for the custom field:
• None - Specify any value for this field.
• Property - The lookup is valid for the field without restriction to which entity or
class it is attached. This lookup applies system-wide. You must define the list on
the same level. If the custom field is of Type Code+Description, the default
Lookup Type is Property.
• Entity - The lookup displays values specific to the field and entity. Therefore, the
lookup may have different values for items such as equipment or parts.
• Class - The lookup displays values specific to the field, entity, and class.
Therefore, the lookup may have different values within items such as entity parts.
Not Update-able - Select when the system retrieves values from the category of
data instead of from the data itself.
Print Custom Fields - Select to enable the system to print the custom field on
work order cards.
Print Custom Fields is only enabled for custom fields associated with
the OBJ and EVNT entities.
Use for Validation - Select to allow users to enter only values that are in the
lookups for the field. If unselected, users can also enter values that are not in the
lookups.
5. Click Submit.

Defining status requirements for custom fields
Make selected custom fields required for selected statuses. Once you define the status

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1172 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

requirements for a custom field, the custom field will be required when the defined status is
active on the designated screen.
This feature is limited to Work Orders and Nonconformity screens only.
1. Select Administration > Custom Fields > Associate Custom Fields.
2. Select the entity and line for which to define status requirement settings.
3. Click the Action drop-down, and then click Status Requirement Settings.
4. In the Status Requirement Settings pop-up window, specify this information:
Status - Select the status. This custom field will become required for the status you
select here.
5. Click Submit.

Defining global text changes
Access the Global Text Changes form to change boiler text (field labels) throughout the
system rather than using screen designer on each separate screen where the boiler text
appears. Making global text changes creates system-wide terminology changes. Any changes
made on the Global Text Changes form are applied to all application forms where the
specified text appears.
Error messages, function titles, and code descriptions cannot be changed using the
Global Text Changes form.
It is possible to have duplicate texts within the system. Changing one will not affect the other.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Global Text Changes.
2. Specify the search criteria in the Dataspy, and then select the record to update.
3. Specify this information:
Alternate Text - Specify the text for the new boiler text.
4. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1173 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To reverse the text change for the selected record, click Undo. The Original Text
becomes the Current Text for the selected record.
• To reverse all of the system boiler text changes, click Undo All.
• To update all of the system boiler text changes, click Redo All.

Displaying boiler text where used
Display boiler text where used in the system.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Global Text Changes.
2. Specify the search criteria in the Dataspy, and then select the record to update. Current
Text, Original Text, Language, Code, and Last Updated are automatically populated.
3. Click Where Used to show all the screens where the selected record appears.

Defining cost codes
Define cost codes for the organization, and then reference them along with any data involving
costs, such as work orders, purchases, material issues, etc. Charge maintenance costs to the
correct area by specifying cost codes. The cost for repairing a unit air conditioner, for
example, might come out of a particular department’s budget.
Cost codes simplify tracking costs; however, they might hinder data entry because
you must specify cost codes along with the data.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Cost Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the cost code belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Cost Code - Specify a unique code identifying the cost, and then specify a description
of the cost code in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the cost code.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1174 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Non-billable - Select to prevent the cost code from being included when bills are
generated.
Out of Service - Select to prevent the cost code from being displayed in
lookups.Transactions associated with non-billable cost codes will not be included in fleet
bills.
Account Segment Value - Specify the general ledger account code segment that
represents the organization in your accounting structure. See your chart of accounts for
more information.
4. Click Save Record.

Selecting languages
Configure the system to operate in more than one language. This feature is especially useful
for multinational organizations and for companies in bilingual countries, such as Belgium
(French and Flemish) and Canada (English and French).
When the system is configured with two or more languages, these languages will be
predefined in the system. It is possible to define extra languages. Defining other languages is
useful when creating purchase orders, quotation requests, and so forth, for suppliers in other
languages.
To accommodate multilingual transactions, add free-format text in both your own language
and in the supplier’s language. While you can inspect the text in your own language using the
corresponding features, the text in the supplier’s language will be printed on the form that will
be sent to the supplier.

Adding a new language
EAM is delivered with support for nine language translations. Any of these languages that are
not initially installed are classified as Available. Use Install Available Language to install
any of these languages at a later date.
To add a non-supported language (not delivered in the application), first add the language,
next make the language available, install the language, and then designate the language as
Active to use the language.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Languages.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1175 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Language - Specify a unique code identifying the language, and then specify a
description of the language in the adjacent field.
Language must be less than or equal to two letters.
Out of Service - Select to indicate the language is out of service.
4. Click Save Record.

• To make a language Available, click Make Language Available.
• To install an available language, click Install Available Language.
• To refresh an installed language, click Refresh Installed Language.

Making a language available
Designate an installed language as Available to use in the application.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Languages.
2. Select a language to make available, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Click Make Language Available.
4. Specify this information:
Language - Select the language from which to copy the available language.
5. Click Submit.

Installing an available language
Install a language after it has been made Available.
The language is not installed until it is first made Available.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1176 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Setup > Languages.
2. Select a language to install, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Click Install Available Language.

Refreshing an installed language
Prior to refreshing a language, the language must be added, made available, and installed.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Languages.
2. Select a language to refresh, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Click Refresh Installed Language.
4. Choose one of the following options:
• Refresh All Dates - Select to refresh all translated text.
• Refresh Since - Select to refresh translated text beginning with the selected Date.
5. Specify this information:
Boiler Text - Select to refresh boiler text.
Code Description Text - Select to refresh code description text.
Error Text - Select to refresh error text.
Menu Text - Select to refresh menu text.
6. Click Submit.

Viewing the current status of boiler text records for new
languages
View the current status of boiler text records in the system. Use the export to MS Excel
functionality to initiate the first or next round of language translation.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Languages.
2. Select the language for which to view current status of boiler text records, and then click

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1177 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the Boiler Text tab.
3. Specify this information:
Comparison Language - Specify the language for which to compare the boiler text.
4. View the translated and untranslated boiler text.
To download all selected records to MS Excel, click Save Grid to Excel.

Viewing the current status of code description text records for
new languages
View the current status of code description text records in the system. Use the export to MS
Excel functionality to initiate the first or next round of language translation.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Languages.
2. Select the language for which to view current status of code description text records,
and then click the Code Description Text tab.
3. Specify this information:
Comparison Language - Specify the language for which to compare the code
description text.
4. View the translated and untranslated code description text.
To download all selected records to MS Excel, click Save Grid to Excel.

Viewing the current status of error text records for new
languages
View the current status of error text records in the system. Use the export to MS Excel
functionality to initiate the first or next round of language translation.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Languages.
2. Select the language for which to view current status of error text records, and then click
the Error Text tab.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1178 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Comparison Language - Specify the language for which to compare the error text.
4. View the translated and untranslated error text.
To download all selected records to MS Excel, click Save Grid to Excel.

Viewing the current status of menu text tab for new languages
View the current status of menu text records in the system. Use the export to MS Excel
functionality to initiate the first or next round of language translation.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Languages.
2. Select the language for which to view current status of menu text tab records, and then
click the Menu Text tab.
3. Specify this information:
Comparison Language - Specify the language for which to compare the menu text tab.
4. View the translated and untranslated menu text tab.
To download all selected records to MS Excel, click Save Grid to Excel.

Defining closing periods
The system gathers maintenance costs on an ongoing basis. When you are ready to process
those costs, define closing periods. Typically, closing periods occur at the end of every month,
although some companies process transactions on a quarterly basis. When the specified date
arrives, the system freezes all of the relevant data, and a new costing period begins.
Define closing periods just before transferring transaction data to another system for
account processing (general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, and so forth).
1. Select Administration > Security > Closing Periods.
2. Click Add Closing Period. The system automatically populates Date Entered with the
current server system date.
3. Specify this information:
Closing Date - Specify the closing date for the period.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1179 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Closing Date must be in the past because changes to time sheets, issues and
receipts, purchases, and other transactions cannot occur before the date established by
the Closing Period.
4. Click Submit.
You cannot delete closing periods.

Creating and modifying locales
Create or modify locale settings for users. The system supports the locale at the user level,
organization level, and global level (installation parameter). The system automatically
employs the locale of the user. If this locale is not valid, then the system uses the locale of the
default organization of the user. Finally, if that locale is not valid, then the system employs the
locale of the global setting.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Locales.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Locale - Specify a unique code identifying the locale, and then enter a description of the
locale in the adjacent field.
Monetary Decimal Separator - Specify the symbol used as the monetary decimal
separator of the locale.
Monetary Group Separator - Specify the symbol used to separate monetary groupings
in the locale.
Monetary Group Digits - Specify the number of digits needed to separate monetary
groups in the locale.
Monetary Decimal Places - Specify the number of digits to appear after a monetary
decimal in the locale.
Negative Symbol - Specify the symbol used to indicate a negative number in the
locale.
Date Format - Select the date format of the locale.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1180 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Numeric Decimal Separator - Specify the symbol used as the numeric decimal
separator of the locale.
Numeric Group Separator - Specify the symbol used to separate numeric groupings in
the locale.
Numeric Group Digits - Specify the number of digits needed to separate numeric
groups in the locale.
Numeric Decimal Places - Specify the number of digits to appear after a numeric
decimal in the locale.
Positive Symbol - Specify the symbol used to indicate a positive number in the locale.
First Day of Week - Select the first day of the week in the locale.
4. Click Save Record.

Managing access to documents across an enterprise
Store an entire library of supporting documentation for your organization.
Store schematics and drawings, reference guides and user manuals, warranties,
manufacturer claims, and delivery notes.
In addition, organizations can store information electronically on computer diskettes, CAD
drawings, CDs, videos, or audiotapes.

Defining documents
To define documents, assign a code to documents, specify track revision information, and
identify the location of the document.
When setting up electronic document files, consult your system administrator before
defining documents to determine if directories have already been set up.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Documents.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1181 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization - Specify the organization to which the document belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Document - Specify a unique code identifying the document, and then specify a
description of the document in the adjacent field.
Revision Number - Specify the revision number of the document. In other words, if you
have updated the document since the document was entered in the system, enter 1.
Original Code - Specify the original code of the document.
File Location - Specify the location of the file.
File Type - Specify the type of file, such as word document (DOC), spreadsheet (XLS),
and so forth.
IDM Document Type - Specify the document type if you are uploading it from the Infor
Document Management system.
Effective Date - Specify the date to make the document available in the system to
users of this organization.
Expiration Date - Specify the date the document at which the document is no longer
available to those users in the system.
Title - Specify the title of the document.
Class - Specify the class of the document.
Revision Date - Specify the date of the latest document revision.
Pages - Specify the number of pages in the document.
File Path - Specify the file path of the document, such as URL (www.infor.net), file name
(infor.doc), and so forth.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to prevent the document from
displaying in lookups across the system.
5. Click Save Record.
Click Upload Document to upload an existing document record to the server.
A document record must already exist and cannot have unsaved changes to upload it

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1182 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

from the Documents form. After uploading a document, File Type is automatically
populated with Uploaded Document and File Path with the file name.

Removing document associations
View entity associations for documents, and then remove entity associations as necessary.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Documents.
2. Select the document for which to remove an entity association, and then click the
Where Used tab.
3. Select the entity to disassociate from the document, and then click Remove Document
Association.

Setting up access to external documents
Set up access to external documents by defining a URL or file path installation parameter for
files. When accessing an external document, the system looks for the URL or file path you
have defined as an installation parameter for a particular file type or category to display the
document.
Define the URL or file path as URLxxx where xxx is the value of File Type on the Documents
form. For example, you might enter the code URLPDF to access a .PDF file. Then you would
enter the URL or file path indicating the location where all .PDF files are stored on the web or
network, e.g., \\mycompany\myserver.com\documents\ PDFs. When you access an external
document after setting up access to external documents, the system identifies the document
type or category and then opens the file using the URL indicating where documents of the
specified type or category are stored and the specific File Path you entered on the
Documents form. Thus, the full path to the specific document you wish to access might be
\\mycompany\myserver.com\documents\ PDFs\PDFattachment.pdf.
The URL can be a path to the web or a directory. You can separate URLs by type, for
example, .DOC or .PDF or by a chosen category, such as Safety (URLSAF) or Vendors
(URLVEN).
1. Select Administration > Security > Install Parameters.
2. Click New Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1183 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Specify this information:
Install Parameter - Specify a unique code identifying the URL installation parameter,
such as URLPDF, and then specify a description of the URL installation parameter in the
adjacent field.
You cannot define fixed install parameters or assign new install parameters to a
module.
Value - Specify the full path to the URL that contains files of the specified type or
category, for example: \\mycompany\ myserver.com\documents\PDFs.
4. Click Save Record.

Setting up printers
1. Select Administration > Setup > Printers.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the printer belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Printer - Specify a printer code to link the printer to a specific device, and then specify a
description of the printer in the adjacent field.
Printer is case sensitive; it accepts mixed-case records.
Destination - Specify a unique destination identifying the path to the printer.
Special - Select this check box to prevent the printer from being displayed in the Printer
lookup when printing reports.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining classes
Define classes for most entities. You can separate a single entity into groups, most often for
cost analysis. For example, you can assign classes to equipment, and then give all air
conditioning units a class of "HVAC." With this information, an analysis that compares the cost

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1184 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

of maintaining all HVAC units is provided.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Classes.
2. Specify the entity for which to create classes.
3. Click Add Class.
4. Specify this information:
Class - Specify a unique code identifying the class.
Description - Specify a description of the class.
When editing a class, you can only edit the Description.
Organization - Specify the organization of the class if you use multi-organization
security.
Coding Entity - Select the coding entity with which to associate the class.
Level - Specify the level of the class.
Out of Service - Select to prevent the class from being displayed in lookups.
Coding Entity, Level, and Out of Service apply only to the CLVL entity.
Property Definition - Select the property definition with which to associate the class.
Notebook Definition - Select the notebook definition with which to associate the class.
Property Definition and Notebook Definition apply only to the OBJ entity.
5. Click Submit.
To update the translations by language, click Translations.

Defining classes and custom fields
Define class records for entities. Classes allow you to segment a single screen into groups for
cost analysis or other comparisons.
1. Open the Classes and Custom Fields form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1185 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Class - Specify a code for the class, and then enter a description in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization if you use multi-organization security.
Screen - Select the form for which to create the class.
Out of Service - Select to indicate the class is out of service.
4. Click Save Record.

Associating custom fields with classes
Define custom field records or select existing custom fields and associate them with a
selected class.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Classes.
2. Select the class for which to associate custom fields, and then click the Custom Fields
tab.
3. Choose one of these options:

Option

Description

Add Custom Field

Click the Add Custom Field link button to add a new
custom field to associate with a selected class.
Specify the custom field information detailed in the
next step.

Custom Field

In the Custom Field lookup, specify the existing
custom field to associate with the selected class. The
Custom Fields page is displayed.

4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1186 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Custom Field - Specify a code for the new custom field, and then enter a description in
the adjacent field.
Line - Specify a value for the line.
Type - Select a type for the custom field.
Print on Work Order Report - Select to print the custom field on the work order report.
Enforce Lookup Validation - Select to require lookup validation for the custom field.
Minimum Value - Specify the minimum value required for the custom field.
Maximum Value - Specify the maximum value allowed for the custom field.
Enable Lookup - Select to enable lookup for the custom field.
5. Click Submit.

Setting up field filters for screens
The Screen Setup form allows administrators to configure the options available in lookup
fields for users on specific screens.
Set up field filters for equipment and work order types on specific screens by specifying which
equipment and work order types are available for selection by a user on the screens.
Using the following check boxes the administrator can set the following filters for fields on
selected screens:
• Filter Type - If selected, on the record view of the selected screen, the system displays
the types listed on the Types tab in the Types lookup.
Only equipment/work orders that belong to Types listed in Field Filter setup will be
displayed in the List View of the selected screen.
An equipment type can be linked to more than one screen; however, only one
type can be flagged as the default screen type for the selected screen.
The list of screens for which the administrator can filter the types and classes is
predefined. Users cannot insert or delete records.
• Filter Class - Enable the class filter for selected screens. If selected, on the record view

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1187 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

of the selected screen, the Class lookup will only display the classes listed on the Class
tab. Only equipment or work orders that belong to Classes listed in Field Filter setup
will be displayed in the list view of the selected screen.
• Filter WO Equipment Type - On the selected Work Order screen, the Equipment
lookup field displays the equipment types that are also listed on the WO Equipment
Type tab.
Select the Filter WO Equipment Type check box to enable the WO Equipment Type
filter for the selected screen.
This check box must be selected only for work order screens.
• Operator Checklist - Specify task plans and equipment classes that will display in the
Task Plan and Equipment Class lookups for users on the Operator Checklists screens.
• Reservation Calendar - If the selected record is a Reservation Calendar screen, the
Filter WO Equipment Type check box is protected as are the specific Organization
and Class.

Setting up classes for screens
Select classes for equipment or work orders. Administrators can specify which class must be
displayed for a user on the related screens.
To set up classes:
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Screen Setup.
2. Select the screen for which to set up classes for equipment or work orders, and then
click the Record View tab.
3. Select the Filter Class check box to filter the class records in the class lookup for the
selected screen.
4. Select the Classes tab.
5. Click Add Class to add classes to the class lookup on the selected screen.
6. Specify this information:
Class - Select the class to display in the class lookup on the selected screen, and then

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1188 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

click OK.
To select multiple classes to display in the class lookup on the selected screen,
click Select Class. Select the classes, and then click Submit.
7. Click Submit.

Setting up types for screens
Select types for equipment or work orders. Specify which equipment or work order types must
be displayed for a user on the related screens.
The user can select a type, only if the Filter Type check box is selected on the
Record View screen.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Screen Setup.
2. Select the screen for which to set up the types for equipment or work orders, and then
click the Record View tab.
3. Select the Filter Type check box to filter types for equipment or work orders on the
selected screen.
4. Select the Types tab.
5. Click Add Type to add the equipment or work order type to the selected screen.
6. Specify this information:
Type - Select the type of equipment or work order.
To select multiple types for the selected screen, click Select Types. Select the
types, and then click OK.
Default Screen Type - If this check box is selected, the equipment type or work order
type is defaulted to the type defined as the Default Screen Type.
7. Click Submit.

Setting up work order equipment types for screens
Set up work order equipment types. Specify which work order equipment types will display for

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1189 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

a user on the related screens.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Screen Setup.
2. Select the screen for which to set up the types for work order equipment, and then click
the Record View tab.
3. Select the Filter WO Equipment Type check box to filter work order equipment types
for the selected screen.
The user can select a work order equipment type, only if the Filter WO
Equipment Type check box is selected on the Record View screen.
4. Click the WO Equipment Types tab.
Filter WO Equipment Type can only be selected for work order screens.
5. Select the Add WO Equipment Type check box to add the equipment type to the
selected screen.
To add multiple work order equipment types, click Select WO Equipment
Type. Select the work order equipment types, and then click Submit.
6. Specify this information:
WO Equipment Type - Select the work order equipment type.
7. Click Submit.

Specifying operator checklists for screen setup
Specify which task plans and equipment classes will display in the task plan and equipment
class lookups on the Operator Checklist screens.
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Screen Setup.
2. Select the screen for which to specify operator checklists, and then click the Operator
Checklist tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1190 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment Class - Specify the equipment class to relate to the task plan.
Task Plan - Specify the task plan to display in task plan lookups on the Operator
Checklist screens.
Complete Status - Specify the operator checklist complete status.
Cancel Status - Specify the operator checklist cancel status.
Default - Select this check box to indicate no more than two Operator Checklist
screens will be flagged as the default screen type for the same equipment class-task
combination specified here.
5. Click Submit.

Creating part hierarchy codes
Create part hierarchy codes to create a coding structure that enables you to further define
parts by classifying them into specific levels.
Before creating part hierarchy codes, you must first define the code levels for the part code
hierarchy entity (CLVL) on the Classes form.
After defining the code levels for the Part code hierarchy entity, you can then create part
hierarchy codes to define a structured hierarchy between part code combinations. You can
define a maximum of eight coding levels for parts.
1. Select Materials > Setup > Part Hierarchy Codes.
2. Click Add Hierarchy Code.
3. Specify this information:
Description - Specify a description of the part code hierarchy.
Specify the different levels of the part code hierarchy beginning with [Level 1] through
[Level 8].
You cannot enter a code for a level until you have entered a code for the
previous level, e.g., you cannot enter a code for [Level 2] if you have not defined [Level
1].

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1191 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system displays the number of code structure levels based on the number of
classes you have defined for the Part code hierarchy entity. For example, if you have
defined four code levels for the Part code hierarchy entity on the Classes form, the
system displays four levels for the code hierarchy [Level 1] – [Level 4].
4. Click Save Record.

Defining account details
Access account detail code information on different forms within the system for which the
Account Details page is available.
Account detail codes are defined for use with Databridge and external accounting
systems.
The system displays the account detail codes associated with the entity of the form from
which you access the Account Details page. The fields displayed on the Account Details are
based on the entity of the form. For example, the fields for the REQL entity (Requisition Lines)
are the Requisition Number, Organization, and the Requisition Line. You can view detailed
account code segment information, copy an existing account detail record, modify an existing
account detail record, or insert a new account detail record. You can also create account
detail records for any entity records for which there are no existing account details.
1. From any form for which account details is activated, click the Account Details tab.
2. Select the entity for which to access account details. The fields for the selected entity
are displayed for information only and are protected. Only the account detail fields are
editable.
3. Specify this information:
Accounted - Select whether the account details should be accounted for as a debit or a
credit.
If the ACCOUNT installation parameter is set to YES, Accounted is required. If
ACCOUNT is set to NO, Accounted is automatically populated with an asterisk (*).
Segment 01 - Segment 30 - Specify the account code segment(s) for the account detail
record as you have defined the account code segment codes on the Account Detail
Setup form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1192 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Only the account code segments that you defined are shown, up to 30 total
segments. For example, if you defined segments 01 through 10, fields for
Segment 01 through Segment 10 are shown.
• If a segment code is defined with a query code on the Account Detail Setup
form, then a list of values for the segment code are shown enabling you to view
the results of the SQL statement for the code.
• If a specific segment code is designated as Required on the Account Detail
Setup form, then the segment field is required for the account detail record on the
Account Details tab.
4. Click Submit.

• You can change the name of a segment to something specific to your accounting
needs as necessary using screen designer.
• To create additional account detail records based on an existing record, click
Copy Record.
• If the ACCOUNT installation parameter is set to YES, Accounted is set to the
opposite value of the record from which you are copying the account details. For
example, if the value of Accounted is Credit for the existing record, Accounted is
set to Debit for the copied record.

Defining capital request categorization codes
Define capital request categorization codes for use on the Capital Planning Request form.
The system will be populated with data from the ASTM UNIFORMAT II Classification
for Building Elements (E1557-97).
1. Select Administration > Setup > Capital Request Categorization Codes.
2. Click Add Categorization Code.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1193 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description - Specify a description of the capital request categorization code.
Major Group Element - Specify the major group element.
Major Group Element, Group Element, and Individual Element cannot
contain periods (.).
Group Element - Specify the group element.
In order to create a new Group Element, you must first create a new Major
Group Element.
Individual Element - Specify the individual element.
In order to create a new Individual Element, you must first create a new Major
Group Element and a new Group Element combination.
4. Click Submit.

Auditing attributes
The system provides a flexible way to track changes of every attribute for almost every table.
When a user enters, updates, or deletes an attribute, the system records the old value, new
value, user code, function used, and date/time stamp. To activate this auditing, you must
know the field and the technical name of the table to track. The system cannot track tables
that do not appear in lookups or have no primary key.
The number of audits might grow very fast; purge data frequently to aid system
performance.

Setting up audit triggers
Set up audit triggers to monitor attribute changes to records. Create audit trail triggers to
define what changes to which attributes you should audit. Once you know the field and the
technical name of the table to track, set up audit triggers.
1. Select Administration > Security > Audit Setup.
2. Specify the table for which to set up audit triggers.
3. Click Add Trigger.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1194 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Field - Specify the field to audit, and then enter a description in the adjacent field.
Update - Select to track updates.
Insert - Select to track insertions.
Delete - Select to track deletions.
5. Specify additional comments concerning the trigger.
6. Click Submit.

Viewing trigger status values
View the status values of audit triggers.
1. Select Administration > Security > Audit Setup.
2. Specify the table for which to view the audit.
3. Select the field for which to view the trigger status, and then click the View Trigger
Status.
4. Specify one of these options:

Option

Description

Refresh Audit Triggers

All audit triggers are dropped from the table, audit
triggers are recreated for each of the fields selected,
and then the Audit Setup list updated.

Drop Audit Triggers

All audit triggers are dropped.

5. View the audit information.
6. Click Close.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1195 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Purging audit records
Purge audit records. Purge data frequently to aid system performance.
1. Select Administration > Security > Audit Setup.
2. Specify the table for which to purge audit records, and then click Purge Audit Records.
3. Specify this information:
From Date - Specify the date from which the audit records will be purged.
To Date - Specify the date up to which the audit records will be purged.
To purge the current date’s audit records, enter tomorrow’s date in To Date.
4. Click Submit.
5. Click Close.

Administering comments and custom fields audit flags
Administer comments and custom fields audit flags. Select the entities for which the system
tracks audit flags, ensuring that the system records all changes to comment and custom field
records for the particular entity.
1. Select Administration > Security > Audit Setup.
2. Click the Comments and Custom Fields tab.
3. Select the check box next to the entity for which to maintain an audit trail of comments
and/or custom fields.

Viewing audits
After setting up the auditing features in the system, you can view audits for fields or view audit
records for status changes.

Viewing audits for fields
After setting up the auditing features in the system, you can view audits for fields or view audit
records for status changes. View audits in order to monitor changes in attributes.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1196 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Open any entity record.
2. Select the record for which to view the audit.
You can only view audits on Record View or list detail pages.
3. Right-click within any field on the record, and then choose Audit Trail.
4. View the audit information.

• You can only view audit information if you have established audit control and
changes have been made to the fields under audit.
• Recorded in Mobile indicates when comments are updated or deleted in Mobile.
The date and time reflect updates in Mobile.
5. Click Close.

Defining Flex business rules
Define Flex business rules or SQL statements to define validation rules that are specific to
your organization. You can set up one or more statements to be processed for post-insert or
post-update events.
Flex SQL processing supports data query (select) and data manipulation (insert, update,
delete) statements. Use select statements to perform a check condition.
Uppercase and lowercase characters are allowed in the SQL statement. The row identifier
token, however, must be either all uppercase or all lowercase (such as :ROWID or :rowid).
Every Flex SQL statement requires the use of a predefined :ROWID token. This token refers
to the database row identifier for the record being processed in the specified table. The
statement is executed for each record in the table affected by the insert or update operation.
The maximum statement length is 4000 characters. No statement termination character (;) is
required.
Data manipulation statements are allowed, but make sure you do not begin an infinite
cascading of trigger steps. For example, generally it is not recommended to create a Flex
SQL statement that updates the base table identified in Table.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1197 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

HxGN EAM recommends that you define Flex SQL procedures in close cooperation
with your HxGN EAM consultant.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Flex Business Rules form.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Table - Specify the database table.
Sequence Number - Specify the sequence number for the Flex SQL statement.
Trigger - Select one of the following options:
• Post Insert
• Post Update
SQL Statement - Specify the SQL statement for the selected database table.
Failure Message - Specify the failure message.
Comments - Specify comments regarding the Flex SQL statement.
4. Optionally, select the Must Exist check box if the Flex SQL statement must exist in the
database table. If Must Exist is selected, SQL statements are run in order of Sequence
Number. If one statement fails, the remainder do not run. If Must Exist is not selected,
each statement runs separately.
5. Optionally, select the Abort on Failure to abort the statement upon failure. If Abort on
Failure is checked, the Failure Message field value is returned, any remaining SQL
statements are not processed, and the save that triggered the flex SQL is canceled.
6. Optionally, select the Reverse Return Code check box to automatically reverse the
returned value upon statement completion, for example, Null becomes Not Null.
Reverse Return Code is used only with Abort on Failure.
7. Optionally, select the Active check box to set this Flex SQL statement record to active.
8. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1198 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Records flagged as Mobile Only cannot be deleted on this screen. You must
delete them on the mobile device.
• Click Test Flex SQL to check the validity of the SQL statement.

Setting up Messenger
Set up Messenger for HxGN EAM. Utilize Messenger to notify users via e-mail of specific
changes in database tables. First, define the installation parameters, and then create e-mail
templates. Next, create e-mail notifications to alert users when certain events occur in the
system database. Set up the system to send e-mails when certain conditions are met and to
include specific parameters. Finally, view e-mails to ensure proper delivery.

Defining installation parameters for Messenger
1. Select Administration > Security > Install Parameters.
2. Specify this information:
Install Parameter - Query for the following installation parameters, and then define
them according to the following examples and descriptions:

Installation Code

Example

Description

SMTPSEND

mailid@yourcompa Specify the e-mail sender.
ny.com

SMTPSERV

mail.yourcompany.c Specify the e-mail server.
om

3. Click Save Record.

Creating e-mail templates for Messenger
Create and modify e-mail messages using e-mail templates. The E-mail Templates tab also
shows records synced from the mobile device.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1199 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Templates.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
E-mail Template - Specify a unique code identifying the e-mail template, and then enter
a description of the template in the adjacent field.
E-mail - Select this check box to send the notification to the email address in the
recipients field.
Push Notification - Select this check box to send the notification to both the email
address and the push notification ID.
If E-mail is unselected and Push Notification is selected, the notification will
send the push notification but not an email.
Notebook E-mails - Select this check box to indicate that the template is created for
sending notebook emails.
From E-mail - Specify the from e-mail address.
E-mail Recipients - Select the recipients of the e-mail message. Separate e-mail
addresses with a space or a ;.
Parameters can be used in E-mail Recipients as well. If a parameter is
associated with a user or employee record, the system replaces it with the
corresponding e-mail address when the e-mail is sent.
E-mail Subject - Specify the subject of the e-mail message.
E-mail Body - Compose the e-mail message. Identify the parameter number(s) that
corresponds to the column of the system table to be displayed with this e-mail. Enter %1
- %15 for each parameter.
4. Click Save Record.

Selecting multiple recipients for e-mail notification
1. Select Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Templates.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1200 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
E-mail Recipients - Select recipients from the list.
4. Click OK.

Creating e-mail notifications for Messenger
Set up e-mail notifications when certain events occur in the HxGN EAM database. Create
e-mail notifications for a defined table based on the e-mail template. Define the parameters
and constraints of each e-mail notification.
To create e-mail notifications for Messenger:
1. Select Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Notification Setup.
2. Enter the table for which to create the e-mail notification.
3. Click Add E-mail Notification.
4. Specify this information:
E-mail Template - Specify the e-mail template to send when this e-mail notification is
activated.
Select one or more of the following events:
• Update - Select to send e-mail when the record is updated.
• Insert - Select to send e-mail when a record is inserted.
• Delete - Select to send e-mail when a record is deleted.
From Status - Specify any status for which to send an e-mail.
To Status - Specify the updated status for which to send an e-mail.
Active - Select to make the selected record active. The check box may be cleared
if you add, modify, or delete parameters or conditions.
Include URL- Select to include the URL in the notification.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1201 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This check box is available only for the following tables:

Table Name

Description

R5ACTIVITIES

Work Order Activities

R5BLANKETORDERS

Blanket Orders

R5BLANKETORDLINES

Blanket Order Lines

R5BOOKEDHOURS

Booked Hours

R5CONTACTRECORDS

Customer Requests (Call Center)

R5EVENTS

Work Orders

R5INVOICEALLOCATIONS

Invoice Allocations

R5INVOICELINES

Invoice Voucher Lines

R5INVOICES

Invoice Vouchers

R5ORDERLINES

Purchase Order Lines

R5ORDERS

Purchase Orders

R5REQUISITIONS

Requisitions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1202 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

R5REQUISLINES

Requisition Lines

R5SERVICEREQUESTS

Service Requests

R5WARCLAIMS

Warranty Claims

Include Documents as Attachments - Select to include documents as
attachments in the email.
This check box is available only for the following tables:

MAM_TABLE

MAM_RENTITY

MAM_ENTITY

MAM_DOCPK

R5EVENTS

EV

EVNT

evt_code

R5MOBILENOTE MNBK
BOOKS

MNBK

mnb_code

R5ORDERS

PORD

CF

ord_code#ord_org

R5OBJECTS

OBJ

O

obj_code#obj_org

R5PARTS

PART

PC

par_code#par_org

Comments - Enter any comments to include in the body of the e-mail notification.
5. Click Submit.

Purging e-mail records
1. Select Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Notification Setup.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1203 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Specify the table for which to purge e-mail records, and then click Purge E-mail
Records.
3. Specify this information:
From Date - Specify the date from which the e-mail records will be purged.
To Date - Specify the date up to which the e-mail records will be purged.
4. Click Submit.
You can also purge e-mail records on the E-mail Viewer form.
5. Click Close.

Setting up e-mail notification parameters
Set up parameters to include in the body of the Messenger e-mail, e.g., a work order #
%1[Work Order Number] was created on %2[Date Created] by %3[Entered by] for
%4[Equipment Code/Name]. Create parameters for each of the data-specific items (items in
brackets). The system retrieves the data based on the parameters and inserts it into the
e-mail.
Parameters must also be set up in the template e-mail body.
1. Select Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Notification Setup.
2. Specify the table for which to set up e-mail notification parameters.
3. Select the record for which to set up parameters, and then click Create Parameters.
4. Click Add Parameter.
5. Specify this information:
Parameter - Specify the parameter number for the e-mail notification.
The parameter must be in a range of 1 to 15.
Column - Specify the name of the column of the system table to be used when creating
the e-mail content for the e-mail body.
6. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1204 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Active is cleared on the associated E-mail Notification record.
7. Click Close.

Setting up e-mail notification conditions
Set up e-mail notifications to send e-mail whenever a specific condition is met.
1. Select Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Notification Setup.
2. Specify the table for which to setup e-mail notification conditions.
3. Select the record for which to set up conditions, and then click Create Conditions.
4. Click Add Condition.
5. Specify this information:
Column - Specify the name of the column on the system table that applies to the e-mail
notification.
Condition - Select the criteria for the e-mail notification.
See the following table when entering conditions for e-mail notifications:

Condition

Definition

Is equal to

Set this Condition if Column is equal to the
value of Value 1.

Is not equal to

Set this Condition if Column is not equal to
the value of Value 1.

Is greater than

Set this Condition if Column is greater than
the value of Value 1.

Is less than

Set this Condition if Column is less than

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1205 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the value of Value 1.

Is greater than or equal to

Set this Condition if Column is greater than
or equal to the value of Value 1.

Is less than or equal to

Set this Condition if Column is less than or
equal to the value of Value 1.

Is blank

Set this Condition if Column is blank.

Is not blank

Set this Condition if Column is not blank.

Is between

Set this Condition if Column is between
the values of Value 1 and Value 2.

Is not between

Set this Condition if Column is not
between the values of Value 1 and Value
2.

Contains

Set this Condition if Column contains the
value of Value 1.

Does not contain

Set this Condition if Column does not
contain the value of Value 1.

Value 1 / Value 2 - Specify the value of the e-mail notification condition.
Specify values according to the following formats:
Date - To_date (‘23-OCT-2003’,’DD-MON-YYYY’). For example, if you are entering a
date value for a condition that is equal to a specific date, enter the value according to
this exact format:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1206 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Column

Condition

Value 1

Name of column

Is equal to

To_date (‘23OCT-2003’,’DD- MONYYYY’)

Numbers - To_Number (10). For example, if you are entering a number value for a
condition that is greater than a specific number, enter the value according to this exact
format:

Column

Condition

Value 1

Name of column

Is greater than

To_Number (10)

Characters - ‘engine’
Contains - ‘%pump%’

• You must enter a Value 1. The system protects both Value 1 and Value 2 if you
enter "is blank" or "is not blank" in Condition. Value 2 is required if you enter "is
between" or "is not between" in Condition.
• If you update Column or Condition after you enter Value 1 or Value 2, the system
clears both of the value fields.
6. Click Submit.
The system clears Active on the associated E-mail Notification record.
7. Click Close.

Viewing initiated e-mails for Messenger
View records of all e-mails that have been initiated from database events to ensure proper

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1207 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

delivery and to troubleshoot problems with Messenger. All sent messages are shown,
including those that encountered error messages.
1. Select Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Viewer.
2. Select the record for which to view the initiated e-mail.
3. View the following information regarding the e-mail record:
• Date - The date the e-mail was initiated is shown.
• E-mail Record - A code identifying the e-mail record is shown.
• E-mail Template - The e-mail template is shown.
• Recipients - The list of e-mail recipients is shown.
• E-mail Error - Indicates that an error occurred while sending the e-mail.
• E-mail Error Count - Indicates the number of e-mail errors.
• E-mail Sent - Indicates the e-mail was successfully sent.
• E-mail Body - The composed message is shown.
• E-mail Error Message - The error that the e-mail message encountered is shown.
• Push Notification Error Count - The number of failed send push notification
attempts.
• Push Notification Error Message - The error message for the failed send push
notification attempt.
4. Optionally, click Notification Failures to view notifications of failed e-mail transactions.

Viewing notifications of failed e-mail transactions
View records of failed e-mail transactions when recipients did not receive the e-mail
transmission. Recipients with more than one registered device will show a recorded record for
each registered device with a failed e-mail transmission.
1. Select Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Viewer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1208 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click Actions, and then click Notification Failures.
3. Open the Notification Failures pop-up window.
4. View the information.

Managing alerts
Create e-mail and work order alerts to notify users when data in HxGN EAM (e.g. equipment)
does not meet a specified criteria. First, create a grid to query data in the system and then
use alert management to determine if the results need to be measured against a min/max
setting or if the results alone will trigger an email and/or work order.
As an example, an alert management record can be created to monitor readings that are
being imported into HxGN EAM for chillers. The alert record may monitor to see if the
difference between supply air temperature and the return air temperature is >22 degrees
when chilled water temperature is <46 degrees and chilled water valve is open >50%. If all
this criteria is met for a chiller then a work order would be created indicating that a belt could
be slipping or the filters may be plugged.
Alert management has been extended to support Flex Python execution in EAM. Leverage
grids to meet your organization's specific use case requirements to configure alerts to pass
specific parameters to your Flex Python scripts at runtime based on the values in the grids.
Use the new R5ALERTDATAOBJ table to import records into HxGN EAM. Then use
alert management to analyze the records and create alerts when deviations occur.
R5ALERTDATAOBJ was specifically designed for analyzing data imported from another
system related to HxGN EAM equipment records. This table can be accessed through web
services or using the HxGN EAM Import Utility. Once records are created in
R5ALERTDATAOBJ, use this table in Grid Designer when creating the alert management grid
query.
Create an active alert management grid on the Grid Designer page before setting up an alert
on the Alerts page. See Defining grids.

Creating alerts
Create e-mail and work order alerts for specific equipment.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Alert Management.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1209 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click New Record.
3. Specify a description for the alert.
Active - Select to set this alert to active.
4. Specify this Alert Definition Details information:
Grid Name - Specify the grid name defined for the Alerts form on the Grid Designer
form.
Dataspy - Select the Dataspy for the grid.
Exception Entity - Specify the exception entity.
Grid Key Field 1 - Specify the mapping to the corresponding grid column that should be
used as a key field in the grid. For example, if analyzing equipment this would map to
the equipment column in the grid.
Grid Key Field 2 - Specify the mapping to the corresponding grid column that should be
used as a key field in the grid. For example, if analyzing equipment this would map to
the equipment column in the grid.
Grid key fields are populated on the History page, and used for reviewing data
when a delay period is entered for an alert on the Work Order Alerts, Exceptions, or
E-mail Alerts pages.
5. Specify this Min/Max Definition information:
Use Min/Max - Select to use a minimum and maximum range for this alert.
Min/Max Value Field - Specify the mapping to the corresponding grid column. During
the alert process the system analyzes the result of the field for each row in the grid and
compares it to the min/max selections on the form.
Min Value - Specify the minimum value for the alert. The system produces alerts when
the result of Min/Max Value Field is less than or equal to the minimum value.
Max Value - Specify the maximum value for the alert. The system produces alerts when
the result of Min/Max Value Field is greater than or equal to the maximum value.
Trigger within Min/Max Values - Select to trigger alerts when the result value is within

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1210 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the Min Value and Max Value.
Triggering within min/max will generate alerts when the result has values equal
to or greater than the Min Value and less than or equal to the Max Value.
6. Specify the user-defined fields.
7. Specify this Scheduling information:
Frequency - Specify the frequency of the analysis in a numerical amount, and then
select the frequency UOM. For example, enter 10 and then select Days to enable the
system to perform an analysis every 10 days.
Although the analysis may process every 10 days, the system does not
generate alerts unless the analysis meets the specified criteria.
Next Evaluation Date - Specify the next date to evaluate the alert.
8. Specify this Active Alert Types information:
Work Order - Select to create a work order alert based on specific parameters.
E-mail - Select to create an e-mail alert based on specific parameters.
ION Pulse - Select to create an ION Pulse alert based on specific parameters.
Generate WOs - Select to create a generate work order alert based on specific
parameters.
WO Pick Ticket - Select to create a work order pick ticket alert based on specific
parameters.
Flex Python - Select to create a Flex Python alert based on specific parameters.
9. Click Save Record.

• To preview the grid query results, click Preview Grid.
• To activate alert management, enable the ALRT driver on the Job Setup form.

Defining before SQL statements for alerts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1211 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define SQL statements that the system will execute prior to executing the defined grid for an
alert. Before SQL statements can be used to prepare data or structures being used by the
grid, such as purge records.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Alert Management.
2. Select the alert for which to define the before SQL statement, and then click the Before
SQL tab.
3. Specify this information:
SQL Statement - Enter the SQL statement that will be executed before the grid query
will produce a result set. The system automatically populates Abort on Failure.
Clear Abort on Failure to enable the system to continue executing the grid
query if the SQL statement fails.
Comments - Specify comments regarding the SQL statement.
Execute when Previewing Grid - Select to execute the SQL statement when Grid
Preview is selected.
Active - Select to set this SQL statement record to active.
To process the before SQL statement when the alert job is run or Grid Preview
is selected on the Record View page of the Alerts form, you must select Active.
4. Click Save Record.
Click Test SQL to check the validity of the SQL statement.

Previewing grids for alerts
Preview the grid for alerts. The system does not always display the number of alerts the
system creates once the alert management process is run. The system must consider if the
alert is using min/max evaluation and delays in order to get the correct number of alerts to
generate. For example, previewing the grid may show temperature records for many pieces of
equipment, but some may not meet the criteria set up in Min Value or Max Value. Also, some
equipment may have a delay period in which you do not want to create additional work orders
or e-mails for equipment continuing to meet a threshold.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1212 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Setup > Alert Management.
2. Select the alert for which to preview the grid, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Click Preview Grid.
4. View the results.
5. Click Close.
To set the Next Evaluation Date for the alert, click Schedule Now.

Defining after SQL statements for alerts
Define SQL statements for system to execute after executing the defined grid query and after
creating e-mail and work order alerts.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Alert Management.
2. Select the alert for which to define the after SQL statement, and then click the After
SQL tab.
3. Specify this information:
SQL Statement - Specify the SQL statement that will be executed after the grid query
and alerts.
Comments - Specify comments regarding the SQL statement.
Execute when Previewing Grid - Select to execute the SQL statement when Grid
Preview is selected.
Active - Select to set this SQL statement record to active. The SQL statement is
processed after the grid query is processed.
To process the after SQL statement when the alert job is run or Grid Preview is
selected on the Record View page of the Alerts form, you must select Active.
4. Click Save.
Click Test SQL to check the validity of the SQL statement.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1213 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating work order alerts
Define a work order alert to create work orders systematically based on a grid query.

• Work Order must be selected on the Record View tab of the Alerts page for an alert
before the system will examine the Work Order Alerts page during the alert
management process.
• The alert management process uses R5 User ID to create work orders. R5 must have
rights to all organizations required to create work orders from alert management.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Alert Management.
2. Select the alert for which to create a work order alert, and then click the Work Order
Alerts tab.
3. Specify this information:
Delay Between Alerts - Specify the numerical amount of time between work order
alerts for a specific grid key, and then select the delay UOM, or unit of time to delay
between alerts. For example, enter 2, and then select Hours to allow 2 hour delays
between the work order alerts.
When the system analyzes delay periods, it uses Grid Key Field 1 and Grid
Key Field 2 on the Record View and History tabs of the Alerts page to determine if a
grid result will get the delay specified. If it is determined that a grid result will get the
delay, then the system does not produce the alert if the time between the last alert and
the current time is within the delay criteria.
Standard WO - Specify the standard work order to associate to the work order alert.
The system uses the standard work order as a template when creating the work order.
Work Order Org.- Specify the organization to which the work order created will belong.
Equipment Field - Specify the grid column that represents the equipment field.
Equipment Org. Field - Specify the grid column that represents the equipment
organization.
Description - Specify the description that will be on the work order when the work order

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1214 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

is generated. If no value is entered the system uses the standard work order value.
Due Nonconformities Only - Select to include only new observations created for
nonconformities that are due for inspection.
The inspector will not see nonconformities on the work order that are present
but not due for inspection. The inspector may be confused if he finds such
nonconformities during the inspection that were not on the list, which may lead to
duplicate nonconformities
Include Nonconformities - Select to include new observations for re-inspection for
existing nonconformities.
4. Specify comments to display on the work order when the work order is generated.
5. Optionally, to associate work order fields to grid fields, click Additional Field Mapping.
See Mapping additional fields for work order alerts.
6. Click Save Record.
To create parameters for work order alerts, click Create Parameters. These
parameters can be used to help build a user-friendly description and/or comment when the
work order is generated by setting parameters that represent actual values in the grid results.
See Creating parameters for alerts.

Mapping additional fields for work order alerts
Associate work order fields to grid fields to create mappings used by the alert for creating
work orders.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Alert Management.
2. Select the alert for which to map additional fields for a work order alert, and then click
the Work Order Alerts tab.
3. Click Additional Field Mapping.
4. Click Add Mapping.
5. Specify this information:
Work Order Field - Specify the work order field to populate, such as, Standard WO,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1215 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Department, or Warranty.
Grid Field - Specify the grid field to map to the work order field.
6. Click Submit.
7. Click Close.

Defining the generate WO alert type
When an alert has its Generate WOs check box selected and the alert runs, the system will
determine the type of work orders that are to be generated or created based on the PM
Schedule/Maintenance Pattern Type field value on the Generate WOs tab for the alert. The
alert can have only one PM Schedule/Maintenance Pattern Type value and will generate or
create only that type of work order.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Alert Management.
2. Select the record for which to create a generate WO alert, and then click the Generate
WO tab.
3. Click PM Schedule/Maintenance Pattern Type.
4. Specify this information:
PM Schedule/Maintenance Pattern Type
• Select Fixed/Variable PMs if the PM is based on a fixed or variable schedule.
• Select Duplicate PMs to allow multiple work orders to be open at the same time.
• Select Non-duplicate MPs if you do not want to duplicate maintenance patterns.
• Select Duplicate MPs to allow duplicate maintenance patterns.
If Duplicate PMs or Duplicate MPs is selected, the system will enable
the Generate Through Field lookup and make it a required field. The Generate
Through Field identifies which grid field holds the calculated date for which the
alert should create duplicate work orders or maintenance patterns. See Defining
fields for grids.
5. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1216 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining the work order pick ticket alert type
Define a WO pick ticket alert to be used for each record in a grid query.
The WO Pick Ticket check box must be selected on the Record View tab of the
Alerts page for an alert before the system will examine the WO Pick Ticket Alerts page
during the alert management process.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Alert Management.
2. Select the record for which to create a WO pick ticket alert, and then click the WO Pick
Ticket Alerts tab.
3. Specify this information:
Status - Specify one of these values to create a WO pick ticket alert with a status of
Unfinished, Awaiting Approval, or Approved.
Store - The value in this field will be used by the alert when creating a WO pick ticket
alert only if the department for the WO activity does not have a default store defined.
If a default store for the department cannot be found, a ‘catch-all’ store will be
used. If there is no default store for the WO department and this field is empty, the WO
activity will fail to be processed by the alert and cause pick tickets to be created in an
Unfinished, Awaiting Approval, or Approved status.
Default Description - Specify a value in this field if you want all the WO pick tickets
created from the alert to contain the value specified as the WO pick ticket description. If
this field is left empty, the alert will use the WO description as the WO pick ticket
description.
4. Click Save.

Creating e-mail alerts
Define alerts to trigger e-mails when records are identified that cause an alert.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Alert Management.
2. Select the alert for which to create an e-mail alert, and then click the E-mail Alerts tab.
3. Click Add Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1217 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
E-mail Template - Specify the e-mail template to send.
Delay Between Alerts - Specify the numerical amount of time between e-mail alerts for
a specific grid key, and then select the delay UOM, or unit of time to delay between
alerts. For example, enter 2, and then select Hours to allow 2 hour delays between the
e-mail alerts.
When the system analyzes delay periods, it uses Grid Key Field 1 and Grid
Key Field 2 on the Record View and History pages of the Alerts form to determine if a
grid result will get the delay specified. If it is determined that a grid result will get the
delay, then the system does not produce the alert if the time between the last alert and
the current time is within the delay criteria.
5. Click Submit.

• Users may create multiple e-mail alerts for a single alert management record. The
system sends multiple e-mails for each grid result meeting the specified alert criteria.
• To activate e-mail alerts, enable the MAIL driver on the Job Setup form, and then enter
the correct values for the e-mail install parameters.

Creating parameters for alerts
Create parameters or standard messages for use in substituting values in large text areas
such as in the e-mail message, work order descriptions, and work order comments. By
creating standard messages, the system defaults these messages in the body of the e-mail
message, description, or comments. Example: For an e-mail alert notification the text may
read: "HVAC-ROOFTOP-01 has a temperature of 250 degrees. Please check this equipment
by 01/15/2008." To prevent the necessity of entering the same information repeatedly, create
parameters that allow the system to default the same message for the data-specific items to
be pulled from the grid. For the example above, you would enter for the body of the e-mail:
"%1 has a temperature of %2 degrees. Please check this equipment by %3."
1. Select Administration > Setup > Alert Management.
2. Create an alert.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1218 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Alerts can be created on the Work Order Alerts or E-mail Alerts page, by
clicking Create Parameters. You may also access this pop-up window by clicking
Create Parameter on this page.
3. Click Add Parameter.
4. Specify this information:
Parameter - Specify the text to be displayed in the text areas of the e-mail message or
comments. Enter % for parameters and the number of the parameter that is to be used.
Recipient - Select to include the recipient.
Recipient is not displayed when the Create Parameters pop-up window is
invoked from the Work Order Alerts page.
Grid Field - Specify the grid column that represents the value you wish to substitute into
the field.
Value - Specify the hard-coded value to substitute into the field.
5. Click Submit.
When you select Recipient, the system takes the resulting grid field value or hardcoded value and lookup to the HxGN EAM user table and then the personnel table and
searches for a corresponding record. The system then takes the e-mail addresses associated
with that record and uses it where the parameter is located in the e-mail template. The system
assumes you will enter the actual % parameter in the recipient line of the e-mail template.

Defining exceptions for alerts
Define exceptions to the alert criteria. Enter the specific records that will have different alert
criteria than all of the other records to be analyzed by the grid query.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Alert Management.
2. Select the alert for which to create an exception, and then click the Exceptions tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1219 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Grid Key 1 - Specify the actual value expected in the grid result for which to define
exceptions.
This LOV is defined by Exception Entity on the Record View page. You may
make your own key fields without using system entity values.
Grid Key 2 - Specify the actual values expected in the grid result for which to define
exceptions.
The actual values from the grid result for Grid Key 1 and Grid Key 2 should be
used in the columns that are mapped to Grid Key Field 1 and Grid Key Field 2 on the
Record View page, e.g., equipment and equipment organization would be mapped on
the Record View page, and then on the Exceptions page the values of HVACROOFTOP-01 and ATLANTA would display for the actual values for which to set up
exceptions.
Delay Between Alerts - Specify the numerical amount of time between alerts for a
specific grid key value, and then select the delay UOM, or unit of time to delay between
alerts. For example, enter 2, and then select Hours to allow 2 hour delays between the
alerts.
This delay overrides both delays for work order alerts and e-mail alerts for the
Grid Key 1 value specified.
Trigger within Min/Max Values - Select to trigger alerts when the result value is within
the Min Value and Max Value.
Min Value - Specify the minimum value for Grid Key Field 1. The system produces
alerts when the result of Min/Max Value is less than or equal to the minimum value.
Max Value - Specify the maximum value for Max Value. The system produces alerts
when the result of Min/Max Value is greater than or equal to the maximum value.
5. Click Submit.

• The system overrides any data in Min Value or Max Value specified on the Record
View page of the Alerts form for the Grid Key 1 value specified.
• If Use Min/Max is not selected on the Record View page, the system ignores the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1220 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

min/max data specified on the Exceptions page.

Defining ION pulse for alerts
On the ION Pulse tab configure the ION pulse that will be sent by the alert and as such you
only need to setup data here if the alert type is ION Pulse. ION Pulse is an alternative channel
to deliver HxGN EAM alert notifications to end users via ION.
The content of the notification is pulled from the grid fields and consists of three portions:
• Alert Description
• Recipient of the notification
• Data Content
1. Select Administration > Setup > ION Pulse > .
2. Specify this information:
Description - Specify the description assigned to this notification.
Recipient - Specify the recipient of this notification.
This must be an e-mail address if you decide that the ION Monitor will use this field.
Note that it is not possible to reach multiple recipients using this field.
Delay Between Alerts - Specify the time you want the alert to skip after the creation of
the ION Pulse alert before it creates a new one.
The construction of the pulse notification BOD is based on the r5alertgriddata
table populated by the alert. The Data Content is determined by the layout of the
selected Dataspy.
3. Click Save.
The layout for this Data Content can then be configured on ION Desk. This configuration
requires the creation of an ION monitor as follows:
1. Add the pulse notification noun on the Documents tab.
2. Include attributes based on the Data Content on the Attributes tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1221 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Define the message format and include values of attributes in the message on the
Alerts tab.
4. Define the recipient of the alert notification on the Distribution tab. You can configure
the distribution list using the group or user information from ION, or you can configure
the distribution list using the Recipient from the BOD.
5. Optionally, define condition under which to send the alert.

Creating Flex Python alerts
Configure how Flex Python event records are created from the Alerts user defined grid.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Alert Management.
2. Select the alert for which to define a Flex Python alert, and then select the Flex Python
check box on the Record View screen.
3. Click the Flex Python Alerts tab, and then specify this information:
a. Delay Between Alerts - Define the numerical amount of time between Python
alerts for a specific grid key field, and then select the Delay UOM, or unit of time to
delay between alerts. For example, enter 2, and then select Hours to allow 2 hour
delays between alerts.
b. Choose one of the following options:
i. Python Executable Document - Enter the EAM document code that
matches the Python executable script for which to create a Flex Python
event record for each alert grid record. This alert execute the selected
Python script for each alert record in the grid.
Select this option if you plan to use the same Python script for each
alert grid record. The alert is used to execute only one Python script for all
alert records in the grid.
ii. Python Executable Document Grid Field - Select the alert user defined
grid field that contains the EAM document code that defines the Flex Python
executable script that should be run for each alert grid record.
Select this option to execute a different Python script for each

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1222 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

record in the alert grid.
c. Parameter Grid Fields 1-10 - Use these fields to select the alert grid field which
contains data you wish to pass into the Flex Python executable framework API
that will be used during the execution of the Python script.
For example, if the purpose of the Python script is to take equipment data and to
create a work order, select the equipment code and the equipment organization
from the alert user defined grid into the Parameter Grid Field 1 and Parameter
Grid Field 2.
4. Click Save Record.

Viewing Flex Python events
View the history of which Flex Python scripts have been called to execute in the Python
Framework. These events are initiated when an alert or Flex business rule is triggered.
If the script author has defined logging, the log file will be attached to the Flex Python
event as a document.
1. Open the Administration > System Configuration > Flex Python > Flex Python
Events.
2. View the events.

Viewing alert history
View the failure and success records for an alert. To view alert history:
1. Open the Administration > Setup > Alert Management.
2. Select the alert for which to view history, and then click the History tab.
3. View the history.
For work order type history records, double-click the history record to hyperlink to the
Work Orders form. View the information, and then click Close or Return to close the Work
Orders form and return to the History page.

Creating region codes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1223 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create and update region codes for tracking degree days. A degree day reference point
(temperature) must first be defined for each region. The standard degree day reference point
is 65° Fahrenheit or 18° Celsius.
Degree days are classified as cooling or heating. If the average daily temperature rises above
the 65° Fahrenheit (18° Celsius) degree day reference point, the day is considered a cooling
degree day because the buildings typically require cooling.
A cooling degree day is determined by the number in degrees that the average temperature
rises above the 65° Fahrenheit (18° Celsius) reference point.
Example of cooling degree day in Fahrenheit

Date

Average Temperature

4/30/ 79° F
17

Degree Days Reference Point

65° F

Cooling Degree Day

14

If the average daily temperature falls below that reference point, the day is considered a
heating degree day because the buildings typically require heating. A heating degree day is
represented by the number of degrees that the average temperature falls below the defined
temperature.
Example of heating degree day in Fahrenheit

Date

Average Temperature

12/2 35° F
1/17

Degree Days Reference Point

65° F

Heating Degree Day

30

1. Select Administration > Setup > Regions.
2. Click New Record to create a new region, or select an existing region to modify.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1224 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Region - Specify a unique code identifying the new region, and then specify a
description for the region.
Organization - Select the organization.
Postal Code - Specify the postal code pf the region.
Class - Select a class for the region.
Degree Day Reference Point - Specify a value for the degree day reference point. The
value is the specific outside temperature at which no heating or cooling is typically
required. The default values are 65° Fahrenheit and 18° Celsius depending on your
region's default unit of measure.
Actual Temperatures Source - Select the source which supplies the actual
temperature data, such as, National Climatic Data Center or World Weather Online.
Actual Temperatures URL - Specify the URL for the Actual Temperature Source.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to designate the region is not being
used.
5. Choose Fahrenheit or Celsius to set the region's default unit of measure for degree
day data.
6. Click Save Record.

Recording actual temperature data for regions
Record actual temperature data for heating degree days and cooling degree days for each
day of the year. Store actual highs, lows, and average temperatures and degree days.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Regions.
2. Select the region for which to record actual temperatures, and then click the Actual
Temperatures tab.
3. Click Add Actual Temperature.
4. Specify this information:
Date - Specify the date for which to record actual temperatures for the region.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1225 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Temperature Minimum - Specify the minimum temperature for which to record actual
temperature data for the region.
Temperature Maximum - Specify the maximum temperature for which to record actual
temperature data for the region.
Temperature Average, Heating Degree Days, and Cooling Degree Days for
the region are re-calculated based on the minimum and maximum temperatures
specified.
5. Optionally, click Get Actual Temperatures to get actual data including the high, low,
and average temperatures for specific dates.
6. Click Submit.
7. Optionally, to delete actual temperature data for a specific date, select the actual
temperature record for which to delete, and then click Delete Actual Temperature.
8. Optionally, to purge actual temperature records to a specific date, click Purge Actual
Temperature Records.

Updating historical temperature data for regions
View recorded historical averages for degree days, high, low, and average temperatures in
your region. Update minimum and maximum temperature values to update the historical data
for average temperatures and heating and cooling degree days for each day of the year in the
region.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Regions.
2. Select a region code for which to update historical temperature data, and then click the
Historical Temperatures tab.
3. Specify this information:
Temperature Minimum - Specify the new minimum temperature.
Temperature Maximum - Specify the new maximum temperature.
Temperature Average, Heating Degree Days, and Cooling Degree Days for
the region are re-calculated based on minimum and maximum temperatures specified.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1226 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Submit.

Getting actual temperatures for regions
Get actual temperatures for regions from a weather source such as the National Climatic Data
Center or World Weather Online.
To get actual temperatures, Actual Temperatures Source and Actual
Temperatures URL both must be entered on the Record View of the region.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Regions.
2. Select the region for which to get actual temperatures, and then click the Actual
Temperatures tab.
3. Click Get Actual Temperatures.
4. Specify this information:
Get Temperatures From - Specify the first date for which to get actual temperatures.
Get Temperatures To - Specify the last date for which to get actual temperatures.
5. Click Submit.
6. Click Close.

Purging actual temperature records for regions
Purge actual temperature records to a specific date.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Regions.
2. Select the region for which to purge actual temperatures, and then click the Actual
Temperatures tab.
3. Click Purge Actual Temperature Records.
4. Specify this information:
Up To Date - Specify the date for which to purge the system of all records up to and
including this date.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1227 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Creating report organization structures
Create an organizational tree-structure to roll up reporting on performance statistics, energy
consumption, and resource utilization. Define an organizational structure by which you control
the roll-up of energy consumption. For example, the reporting structure might roll up like this:
Operational Area > Facility > Campus > State > Country > Continent > Worldwide
1. Select Administration > Setup > Report Organization Structure.
2. Click Add Top Level Organization.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to designate as the top level organization of the
structure. Available organizations are shown in the right-hand pane.
4. Drag and drop desired organizations to the Report Organization Structure on the lefthand pane under the Top Level Organization previously selected.

Setting up enterprise searches
An enterprise search allows the capability to search across an entire system of database
table records or repositories. Define the search criteria for the enterprise search lookup
capability across the system by first creating interest centers.
Interest Centers are categories by which to group the search results of the repositories in the
Enterprise Search popup or on the Repositories tab.
1. Select Administration > Enterprise Search Setup.
2. Specify a description of the interest center.
3. Specify this information:
Interest Center Category - Specify a category for the interest center. For example, if
you specify Work Module as a category, the search results on the Repositories tab will
include work order activities, work order parts, service requests, work orders,
employees, employee availability, and other records associated with the work module.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1228 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Save Record.
An Interest Center Code is assigned.

Setting up repositories for enterprise searches
A repository is a structured location for system data storage. It is used to map a table, user
function, or tab records from which to search during an enterprise system search.
Repositories are grouped by interest centers on the Record View tab.
1. Select Administration > Enterprise Search Setup.
2. Select the interest center for which to set up a repository, and then click the
Repositories tab.
3. Click Add Repository.
4. Specify this information:
Repository - Specify a name for the repository, and then enter a description of the
repository.
Table Name - Specify the table name for the repository.
User Function - Specify the user function for the repository.
Tab - Specify the tab for the repository.
Thumbnail - Specify a URL location for the thumbnail.
5. Select the Out of Service check box to exclude the repository records from the
enterprise search.
6. Click Submit.

Defining repository columns for enterprise searches
A repository column contains the fields, layout, and sort order of the repository to be used in
an enterprise search.
1. Select Administration > Enterprise Search Setup.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1229 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the interest center for which to define repository columns, and then click the
Repository Columns tab.
3. Select the repository for which to define columns, and then click Add Column.
4. Specify this information:
Column Name - Specify the column name.
Display Order - Specify the order in which the column will display in the repository
table.
Alias - Specify an alias for the column.
Facet - Specify a facet to categorize the column name. Multiple column names can
have the same facet.
5. Click Submit.

Generating enterprise search definitions
Use this screen to generate repositories and their associated interest centers. Export the
repositories and interest centers that you set up on the Enterprise Search Setup screen.
Once you export the items, upload the zip file to the Infor Enterprise Search.
1. Select Administration > Enterprise Search Setup > Generate Enterprise Search
Definitions.
2. Select the repository records to export, and then click Download.
3. Use the Infor IES tool to upload the definitions.zip file to EAM. Browse to
https://<ies_install_server>. infor.com:21000/ies/admin.

Customizing extensible framework
Add business-specific functionality to existing screens/tabs in the product by creating custom
JavaScript files.
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Extensible Framework.
2. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1230 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Name - Specify a unique name to identify the screen customization.
Screen - Specify the user function mnemonic code of the screen to customize.
3. Specify the Source code to customize the screen.
4. Select the Active checkbox to execute the JavaScript changes to the screen in EAM.
5. Click Save Record. Navigate to the screen to view the changes.

Generating QR codes
Generate QR codes for multiple uses.
1. Select Administration > QR Codes Setup.
2. Specify this information:
Server URL - Specify the URL to open once the QR code is scanned.
Tenant - Specify the tenant ID, or logical name given to the DB schema to which the
application is connecting. For example, typically the tenant is part of the URL and is
mentioned within the URL as follows:
If the URL is
http://ittyyyvwqeamvw1.infor.com:555/web/base/logindisp?tenant=QAORA0409
then Server URL is
http://ittyyyvwqeamvw1.infor.com:5555/
and Tenant ID is QAORA0409.
Organization - Specify the organization to which the QR code belongs.
3. Click Generate QR Code to display the image.

Setting up general ledger accounting codes
Define combinations of one or more entities, fields, and corresponding user-defined fields to
populate values for a segment of a GL accounting code.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1231 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Setup > GL Accounting Setup.
2. Click New Record.
3. Select the Organization for the entity, and then specify this information:
Segment Entity - Select the entity for which to populate value combinations for
segments and source fields. Some entity options include:
• Requisitions
• Work Orders
• Booked Hours
• Purchase Orders
• CU Estimates
• Compatible Units of CU Estimates
Segment - Select the segment of the account code o be populated based on the
selected source field(s) and segment value field(s).
4. Specify this GL Accounting Setup Details information:
Level 1 Source Field - Specify the level 1 source field.
This field defines the primary field to be considered when populating values on the
Account Detail tab for a record of the segment entity.
For example, a GL accounting setup record for account code Segment 01 having Level
1 Source Field defined as CU Estimates - Organization would indicate that the
organization of a CU estimate record is used to determine the value to be populated for
Segment 01 in the account detail record.
Level 1 Segment Value - Specify the level 1 segment value.
The optional Level 1 Segment Value defines the specific field from the Level 1 Source
Field record that contains the value to be populated into the account detail record.
Continuing the above example, a GL Accounting Setup record for account code
Segment 01 having Level 1 Source Field defined as CU Estimates - Organization as

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1232 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

well as Level 1 Segment Value defined as User Defined Field 03 would indicate that
the value of User Defined Field from the corresponding Organization of the CU Estimate
would be populated for Segment 01 in the account detail record.
Level 2 Source Field - Specify the level 2 source field.
The optional Level 2 Source Field defines a secondary field to be considered when
populating values on the Account Detail tab for a record of the segment entity; if no
value is specified in the Level 1 Source Field on a segment entity record for which
account detail is to be populated.
For example, if the GL accounting setup record for the Requisition lines entity specified
Level 1 Source Field as Requisition line – Part, it might also be useful to define the
Level 2 Source Field as Requisition line – Trade, since requisition lines can specify
either a part or a trade.
Level 2 Segment Value - Specify the level 2 segment value.
This field defines the specific field from the Level 2 Source Field record that contains
the value to be populated into the account detail record.
Level 3 Source Field - Specify the level 3 source field.
The optional Level 3 Source Field defines a third field to be considered when
populating values on the Account Detail tab for a record of the segment entity; if no
value is specified in the Level 1 Source Field or in the Level 2 Source Field on a
segment entity record for which account detail is to be populated.
Level 3 Segment Value - Specify the level 3 segment value.
This field defines the specific field from the Level 3 Source Field record that contains
the value to be populated into the account detail record.
5. Click Save Record.

Configuring OAuth 2.0 connection
Define and manage OAuth 2.0 protocol configuration connection details.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Integration Configuration.
2. Click New Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1233 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. In the Application Configuration section, specify this information:
a. Application Name – Select EAM API, Flex Python, or ION API for the
application name associated with the configuration definition.
i. If you selected ION API, enter the Base URL, Client ID, Client Secret, and
Client Authorization URL fields.
b. Grant Type – Select the way the application will receive the access token.
4. Optionally, specify this information:
a. Authorization Path – Enter the endpoint URL for the API provider's authorization
server.
b. Access Token Path – Enter the provider's authentication server URL used to
exchange an authorization code for an access token.
c. Revoke Token Path – Enter the URL for the API provider's revocation endpoint.
d. Scope – Enter the permission that is set on the token to further define the type of
protected resources that the connected application can access.
e. Resource – Enter the identifier of the Web API to be accessed.
f. User Name – Enter the user ID credential for an access token.
g. Password – Enter the user's password credential for an access token.
5. Optionally, select the Active check box so that this configuration record remains
enabled and active in the system.
6. In the Inbound API Key section, specify this information:
a. User ID – Select the HxGN EAM user ID.
Selecting a user ID enables the Generate API Key button in a
message.
Alternately, click Revoke API Key to revoke API keys against a user for which an
API key was generated.
7. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1234 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Configuring Single Sign-On authentication
The SSO Configuration screen supports Single Sign-On authentication by enabling the
configuration of SSO capabilities in EAM. The fields on this screen are completely optional
and include configuration of both WS-Trust and OIDC using the parameters populated on this
screen. You may choose to configure both WS-Trust and OIDC.
The WS-Trust settings populated on this screen will be the default settings to
enable tenant-specific configuration and will override any customer information stored in
YAML files. While on-premise customers can use this screen to store WS-Trust configuration,
this screen will be used in the cloud to facilitate tenant-specific WS-Trust settings. This screen
also supports OIDC configuration in place of using install parameters and will incorporate
validation logic to ensure all required fields for OIDC authentication are populated.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > SSO Configuration.
2. In the OIDC Configuration section, specify this information:
a. Issuer – Enter the issuer of the OpenID Connect ID token.
b. Client ID – Enter the client ID of the OpenID Connect.
c. JWKS URI – Enter the URI the client can access to get information on the JWK
keys used by Google.
d. Optionally, select the Password Grant check box to authenticate the username
and password for users.
i. Client Password – Enter the OpenID Connect client password.
ii. Scope – Enter the OpenID Connect scope to be passed in the request sent
to the token end point.
iii. Token End Point – Enter the OpenID Connect token end point.
e. Authentication Endpoint – Enter the endpoint authentication to ensure that only
authorized devices can connect.
f. End Session Endpoint – Enter the endpoint to redirect the user to after the
session ends.
3. In the OIDC Claims section, specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1235 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

a. Identity Claim – Enter the name of the OpenID Connect ID token claim containing
the unique identity information of the user.
b. UPN Claim – Enter the name of the OpenID Connect ID token claim containing
the displayable user information (UPN/Identity 2).
c. Role Claim – Enter the name of the OpenID Connect ID token claim containing
the role information.
d. Tenant Claim – Enter the name of the OpenID Connect ID token claim whose
value contains the tenant information.
e. Email Claim – Enter the name of the OpenID Connect ID token claim containing
the email address.
f. User Description Claim – Enter the name of the OpenID Connect ID token claim
containing the user description.
4. In the WS-Trust Configuration section, specify this information:
a. Enable WS-Trust – Optionally, select this check box to enable the WS-Trust
protocol configuration.
WS-Trust is available when using ADFS or Ping Federate as the IDP, but
not with Azure AD or Okta.
i. Identity Provider Type – Select PF or ADSF to choose between Ping
Federate or Active Directory server to indicate the user authentication that
allows SSO to access other websites.
ii. STS Endpoint – Enter the security token service connection end point for
credentials.
iii. MEX Address – Enter the Message Exchange Address using the ADFS
console.
b. STS Policy ID – Should be left blank when connecting to ADFS.
c. Optionally, select the Quality User check box to set the userid to <tenant>~
<userid> which is intended for backwards compatibility.
d. Optionally, select the Transmit Tenant check box to set the userid to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1236 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

<customerid>_<userid> which is intended for backwards compatibility.
5. Click Save Record.

Configuring SDx integration
Configure the integration between EAM and SDx, and the connection details for the
integration of the two applications. This integration will allow EAM users to view and access
documents stored in SDx for asset, system, and position records.
Use this screen to populate all the required parameters and to provide the formatting for the
display of SDx document related information on the SDx Documents tab.
1. Open the Administration > System Configuration > SDx Integration Configuration
screen.
2. In the General Parameters section, specify this information:
a. Parameter Set ID – Enter the application name associated with the configuration
definition.
This field is not currently used for the integration. Enter N/A in this field.
b. Description – Select the methodology the external application employs to grant
access permission.
This field is not currently used for the integration. Enter N/A in this field.
3. In the Document Viewer URL Viewer section, specify this information:
a. Tag Infomap Server URL – Enter the tag infomap URL to which requests are
redirected after the authorization is complete.
This URL includes parameters for the EAM position (SDx Tag) and
Organization (SDx Plant). This field value should follow this format:
https://<ServerName>/<WebClientSiteName>/#/launch
/infomap;config=<PLANT>;objectObid=<TAG_ID>
b. Document Server URL – Enter the document viewer URL to which requests are
redirected after the authorization is complete. This URL includes parameters for
the EAM position (SDx Tag) and Organization (SDx Plant).

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1237 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This field is not currently used for the integration.
c. Document Infomap Server URL – Enter the document infomap URL to which
requests are redirected after the authorization is complete. This URL includes
parameters for the EAM position (SDx Tag) and Organization (SDx Plant).
This field is not currently used for the integration.
4. In the Token Parameters section, specify this information:
a. SPO Token Server URL – Enter the URL for the server to which token requests
are sent.
b. Client ID – Enter the public identifier of the external application.
c. Client Secret – Enter the confidential identifier used for authentication which is
known only to the OAuth application and the authorization server.
d. Scope – Enter the permission that is set on the token to further define the type of
protected resources that the connected application can access.
e. User Name – Enter the user name or ID credential for an access token.
f. Password – Enter the user's password credential for an access token.
g. Resource – Enter the identifier of the Web API to be accessed.
5. In the FLOC Sync Interface Parameters section, specify this information:
a. Directory for FLOC Sync Interface – This field is not currently used for the
integration.
b. URL for FLOC Sync Response – This field is not currently used for the
integration.
6. In the SDx Document Display Mapping section, specify this information:
a. URL to request the OBID for a FLOC – Enter the URL to which object ID
requests are made for positions.
b. URL to request the Documents for a FLOC – Enter the URL to which document
requests are made for positions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1238 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Both URLs include a parameter for the EAM position (SDx Tag). Neither
field is currently used for the integration.
7. Click Save Record.
Related topics

HxGN EAM SDx Integration Configuration (technical brief)

System security
Define users and user groups to ensure limited, password-controlled access to the system.
Increase screen-level security using interface permissions and Work Order authorization
permissions.
This section describes HxGN EAM functions that only a system administrator has
rights to perform.

Implementing multi-organization security (MOS)
Multi-organization security (MOS) is a feature that allows the system administrator to set up
separate, secured, logical databases within the organization. There is one logical database
for each organization; however, there is still one physical system database. To activate MOS,
you must set the MULTIORG installation parameter to YES.
See Defining installation parameters.
After activating MOS, you cannot deactivate it. Depending on the type of security set up,
users cannot view or influence data from organizations to which they do not belong.
With MOS, the system becomes more user-driven, rather than user-group driven, making it
possible for users to have different roles. Associate users with more than one organization
and establish a default organization for that user. The user’s default organization is shown at
login, which can be changed to any organization to which the user has access. After logging
in to a specific organization, users can view and influence data specific to all the
organizations to which they have access and all information defined as "common," which is
information accessible across all organizations and users.
When inserting new records, the record to the organization of the current login session is
automatically defaulted; however, users can change the organization to any organization to
which they have access.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1239 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

MOS replaces facility security. Therefore, if you do not use MOS, Organization is not shown
on any forms.
MOS affects many system functions, and some sections in the user documentation
apply only to MOS.

Defining organizations
Define organizations within your enterprise. Edit organization details as necessary.
1. Select Administration > Security > Organizations.
2. Click New Record.
You cannot insert a new organization record if you have multi-organization
security set to NO.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify a code identifying the organization, and then provide a
description of the organization in the adjacent field.
Currency - Specify the currency to attach to the organization.
DUNS Number - Specify your organization’s DUNS number. A DUNS number is a
unique nine-digit sequence used as the universal standard for identifying and tracking
businesses worldwide.
Set of Books Name - Specify the name for your general ledger books.
Specify one of the following options for invoice matching:
• Match Tolerance Absolute - Specify the absolute amount allowed as the
difference between the purchase order line cost and the invoice line cost when
matching line costs. If left blank, the value is automatically set to 0.
• Match Tolerance % - Specify the percentage allowed as the difference between
the purchase order line cost and the invoice line cost when matching cost lines. If
left blank, the value is automatically set to 0.
• Match Quantity Tolerance % - Specify the percentage allowed as the difference
between the purchase order line quantity and the invoice line quantity when

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1240 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

matching line quantities. If left blank, the value is automatically set to 0.
Locale - Select the number format to use based on the geographic location of
your organization/enterprise. Selecting a locale determines the manner in which
commas and decimals are used in numeric data.
The setting of the LOCALE installation parameter determines the default
locale for all users. However, selecting a locale at the organization level overrides
the setting of the LOCALE installation parameter of the logged in user.
Code Reference - Specify the code identifying the code reference for the
organization.
Server Time Offset - Specify the number of hours difference between the system
server and your local time if the system server is in a different time zone.
Account Segment Value - Specify the general ledger account code segment that
represents the organization in your accounting structure. See your chart of
accounts for more information.
Accounting Entity - Specify an accounting entity for the organization.
Depreciation Type - Select the depreciation type for assets within the
organization. Depreciation Type is automatically based on the setting of the
ASDEPTYP installation parameter. However, selecting a depreciation method at
the organization level overrides the setting of the ASDEPTYP installation
parameter.
Calendar Group - Specify the calendar group of the organization to determine
periods of availability for associated equipment.
4. Optionally, select the Common check box to indicate the organization is common.
Information defined for common organizations are shared among all organizations.
After defining an organization as common, you cannot change it to be a specific
organization. You cannot delete common organizations.
5. Click Save Record.

Adding enterprise locations to organizations

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1241 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Add, change, or delete enterprise locations on the Organizations screen.
1. Select Administration > Security > Organizations.
2. Select an organization to which to add an enterprise location, and then click the
Enterprise Locations tab.
3. Click Add Enterprise Location.
4. Specify this information:
BOD Group - Specify a BOD Group.
Enterprise Location - Specify a unique name identifying the enterprise location.
5. Click Submit.

Defining fiscal years for asset depreciation
Create fiscal years to indicate the fiscal periods on which to base asset depreciation. When
defining fiscal years for an organization, you cannot create any gaps or overlaps between
fiscal year periods.
After defining fiscal years, you can update them as necessary. However, updating an
existing fiscal year can invalidate records associated with equipment for which unit of output
is the depreciation method.
1. Select Administration > Security > Organizations.
2. Select the record for which to define fiscal years, and then click the Fiscal Years tab.
3. Click Add Fiscal Year.
4. Specify this information:
Start Date - Specify the date on which the fiscal year begins.
End Date - Specify the date on which the fiscal year ends.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1242 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Deleting an existing fiscal year deletes records associated with equipment for which unit
of output is the depreciation method.
• To recalculate depreciation details for the equipment, click Recalculate Depreciation
Details.

Adding options for organizations
Specify, update, and delete parameter option values at the organization level.
For a comprehensive list of organization options, see Organization options.
1. Select Administration > Security > Organizations.
2. Select the organization for which to add options, and then click the Options tab.
3. Click Add Option.
4. Specify this information:
Option - Specify the option for the organization.
Description - Specify a description of the option.
Value - Specify the value of the option, such as S.
5. Click Submit.

Adding users to organizations
Users may belong to more than one organization across your enterprise. You can manually
add users to an organization, import a single user or multiple users from one organization to
another, view users assigned to organizations, or modify the users of an organization.
1. Select Administration > Security > Organizations.
2. Select the organization to which to add the user or users, and then click the Users tab.
3. Click Add Record.
4. Specify this User Details information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1243 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

User Group - Specify the user group the user you are adding, belongs to.
User ID - Specify the user ID of the user you are adding.
Default - Click this check box to indicate this organization is the user's default
organization.
5. Optionally, specify requisition, invoice, purchase order and pick ticket approval limits for
users.
6. Click Submit.

Importing users to an organization
You can manually add users to an organization, or you can import multiple users from one
organization to another.
1. Select Administration > Security > Organizations.
2. Click the Users tab.
Optionally, on this screen you may select the organization to which to import
the user(s) prior to opening the Import Users pop-up window.
3. Click Actions, and then select Import Users to open the Import Users pop-up window.
4. In the pop-up window, specify this information:
From Organization - Specify the organization from which the users are being imported.
To Organization - Specify the organization to which you are importing the users.
Select - Use this check box to select the users you will import.

• Optionally, use the Dataspy to filter records for selection by user groups, class, or
other specifications, and then click Run. The grid is then populated with user
records as determined by the filter selection. Use the Select check box to indicate
which user records you will import.
• Requestor users will not have their user group values overwritten when imported

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1244 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

to a non-Requestor user group. Similarly, non-Requestor users will not have their
user group overwritten when imported to a Requestor user group.
5. Click Submit to close the Import Users pop-up window, and populate the Users tab
with the newly imported user records.

Activating multi-organization security
Using multi-organization security (MOS), establish record-level security for system forms
depending on the organization of the record. To utilize record-level security for a form, first
activate MOS capability for the entity associated with each function.
Example

The system user "John" is associated with HxGN EAM user group 1 and HxGN EAM user
group 2. User group 1 is associated with Organization 1 and User group 2 is associated with
Organization 2. User group 1 has full access rights to the Equipment form; User group 2 has
query-only rights to the Equipment form. When the system user "John" opens the Equipment
form and queries for an equipment record, the system displays only records having
organizations to which John has access, and each record retains the permissions of the
organization associated with the equipment. Therefore, if the organization of the equipment is
Organization 1, John will have full access rights to the record. However, if the organization is
Organization 2, John can only view the record.
You cannot establish record-level security for the equipment unless the MULTIORG
installation parameter is set to YES. See Defining installation parameters.
1. Select Administration > Security > Multi-org Security.
2. Select the entity for which to activate multi-organization security, and then click the
Multi-org check box.

• After activating an entity for MOS, it cannot be deactivated.
• You can select additional Multi-org check boxes to activate multi-organization
security for multiple entities.
3. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1245 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Managing user groups
Set up user groups so that people who perform similar tasks within the organization have the
same privileges. In the system, you can copy the header and child information from one user
group to another. You can also edit user groups as necessary.
The system is automatically configured with the R5 user group, which contains one user. The
R5 user group has full access to all functions, including data setups, system setups, and
system administration setups. After installing HxGN EAM, change the user password
immediately. Only the system administrator should have access to this user.
After setting up users within a user group, the system administrator cannot delete the
group. To delete a group, all associated records must be deleted first. Infor strongly
discourages using the predefined R5 user group as a default user group because menus and
authorizations of this group might be replaced during system upgrades.

Creating user groups
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
User Group - Specify a unique code identifying the user group, and then enter a brief
description of the user group in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify a class code for the user group.
HxGN EAM Requestor - Select to indicate that this user group performs HxGN EAM
Requestor functions.

• The Requestor user group may only submit work requests and/or purchase
requests.
• When you change the value of the Requestor check box, the Copy From is
cleared.
Copy From - Specify, from the list of previously defined groups, the ID of the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1246 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

group from which to copy menus, permissions, and status authorizations to the
user group.

• For user groups that need extensive system privileges, enter the R5 user group,
and then turn off the unnecessary permissions.
• If you do not enter a user group, the menus, permissions, and status
authorizations are automatically copied from the R5 user group.
Default WO Type - Specify the default work order type for the user group. The
default work order type is automatically assigned for the user group on various
forms within the system.
Mobile App - Select the default mobile app for the user group. Options include
Advanced Mobile, Field Work, or Mobile Requestor.
Department - Specify a default department for the user group.
Session Timeout (minutes) - Specify the amount of time in minutes in which the
system will timeout.
Corrections Allowed - Select to allow users to make corrective hour bookings in
the work management module.
4. Click Save Record.

Viewing users assigned to user groups
After setting up new system user groups, view the users that are associated with user groups
on the User Groups page.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to view users, and then click the Users tab.
3. View the user information.

Managing interface options for user groups

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1247 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define and manage interface options for user groups. Add inboxes, charts, and interface
permissions for user groups.

Granting interface permissions to user groups
Specify the functions to which user groups have access and specify the permission levels for
each function.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to grant interface permissions, and then click the
Interface Permissions tab.
3. Click Add Permission.
4. Specify this information:
Function - Specify the function to set up for this user group. The description is
automatically populated in the adjacent field.
Select one or more of the following options to determine the level of interface
permissions for the user group:
• Query - Select to allow users to retrieve records.
• Update - Select to allow users to update records. Users must have query
permission to update records.
• Insert - Select to allow users to insert new records.
• Delete - Select to allow users to delete records. Users must have query
permission to delete records.

• When you clear Query, Update, and Delete are automatically cleared.
• When you select either Update or Delete, Query is automatically selected.
5. Click Submit.

Adding inboxes to user groups

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1248 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to add an inbox, and then click the Inbox tab.
3. Click Add Inbox.
4. Specify this information:
Inbox - Specify the inbox name. The inbox description is automatically populated.
5. Click Submit.

Adding KPIs to user groups
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to add a KPI, and then click the KPI tab.
3. Click Add KPI.
4. Specify this information:
KPI - Specify the KPI name. The KPI description is automatically populated.
5. Click Submit.

Adding charts to user groups
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to add a chart, and then click the Charts tab.
3. Click Add Chart.
4. Specify this information:
Chart - Specify the chart to add to the user group. The chart description is automatically
populated.
5. Click Submit.

Granting work order authorization permissions to user groups

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1249 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the web services to which user groups have access and specify the permission levels
for each web service.
You only need to grant work order authorization permission to user groups if the
JTAUTH installation parameter is set to YES.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to grant work order permissions, and then click the WO
Authorizations tab.
3. Click Add Authorization.
4. Specify this information:
WO Type - Select the work order type for which to grant permissions.
Select one or more of the following options to determine the level of work order
permissions for the user group:
• Insert - Select to allow users to insert new work order records of this type.
• Update - Select to allow users to update work order records of this type. Users
must have query permission to update records.
• Delete - Select to allow users to delete work order records of this type. Users must
have query permission to delete records.
5. Click Submit.

Granting store transaction permissions to user groups
Grant permissions for user groups to perform store transactions such as issuing and returning
parts, transferring parts to stores, inserting physical inventory transactions, and updating
stock records for parts.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to grant store transaction permissions, and then click
the Store Security tab.
3. Click Add Store.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1250 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Store - Specify the store for which to grant security rights.
Issues/Returns - Select to allow users to issue parts from this store and to return parts
to this store.
Store-to-Store Issues (From Store) - Select to allow users to transfer parts from this
store on the Quick Store-to-Store Transfer form and the Store-to-Store Issues form.
Store-to-Store Receipts (To Store) - Select to allow users to transfer parts to this store
on the Quick Store-to-Store Transfer form and on the Store-to-Store Receipts form.
PO Receipts/Supplier Returns - Select to allow users to insert, update, or delete PO
receipts for this store on the PO Receipts form and on the Supplier Returns form.
Physical Inventory - Select to allow users to insert or update physical inventory
transactions for this store on the Physical Inventory form.
Non-PO Receipts - Select to allow users to insert, update, or delete non-PO receipts
for this store on the Non-PO Receipts form.
Create Stock Records with Qty > 0 - Select to allow users to add a new record to the
Stock page of the Parts form with Qty. > 0 or Qty. for Repair > 0.
Update Stock Records - Select to allow users to update Qty. on Hand on the Stock
page of the Parts form.
Scrap Parts from Stock - Select to allow users to scrap parts directly on the Scrap
popup.
5. Click Submit.

Creating security filters
System administrators have the ability to create a security filter using the Dataspy. A security
filter enables you to filter which records users can see.
For example, you can create a security filter on the Work Orders form and then assign the
security filter to a user group. The result is that members of the user group cannot see
records that are not included in the security filter. So if the Security Filter is set to display all

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1251 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

work orders with a Status of Released, then when the user opens the Work Orders form, no
matter what personal Dataspy or quick filter they run, they will never be able to see records
that have a Status other than Released. Users cannot disable a security filter.
To create a security filter, select Security Filter on the Dataspy Filter view. Security Filter is
only displayed for users who are in the R5 user group, and it is disabled for system-delivered
Dataspies.
After creating a security filter, assign the security filter to a user group.

Granting screen-level permissions to user groups
Grant screen-level permissions for data manipulation. Screen authorization for user groups is
critical to database security and data integrity.
Because even the system administrator can be locked out of HxGN EAM, it is
important to allow at least one other person, in addition to the system administrator,
permission to the Users form.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to grant screen-level permissions, and then click the
Screen Permissions tab.
3. Click the plus sign (+) beside the menu and/or sub-menu you wish to view. The menu
and/or sub-menu and are expanded and the folders and screens that reside at various
levels below the main menu and/or sub-menu structure are displayed.
4. Select the screen to which to apply screen-level permissions. Screen Permissions
becomes unprotected.

• If a screen has tabs in addition to a List View page and Record View page, select
the tab to which you want to apply screen-level permissions.
• Tab Available and Tab Always Displayed become unprotected if the tab is
available at the screen level.
• If you select a screen or tab that has system-defined security, certain fields will
remain protected. For example, the Issue/Return Parts deletes are not allowed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1252 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Select one or more of the following attribute options to determine the level of
permissions authorized for the user group:

Check Box

Description

Query

Select to allow users to retrieve data from
the database.

Insert

Select to allow users to insert new data into
the database.

Update

Select to allow users to update data
previously retrieved from existing records in
the database. Users must have query
permission to update database information.

Delete

Select to allow users to delete data from the
database. Users must have query
permission to delete data from the
database.

Tab Available

Select to make a tab available to the user
group.

Tab Always Available

Select to display the tab to the user group at
all times.

• If the user group has permissions to insert or update to a screen, the user group
must also have Query permissions to that screen.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1253 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• When you clear the Query, the Update and Delete check boxes are unselected.
• When you select Tab Always Displayed, Tab Available is selected.
6. In Security Filter, specify the necessary Dataspy to prevent the user group from
accessing specific records.
7. Click Submit.

Defining status authorizations for user groups
System administrators define status change authorizations for user groups for activities such
as approving work requests, completing work orders, approving purchase requisitions, and
approving production requests.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to grant status change authorizations, and then click the
Status Authorizations tab.
3. Click Add Authorization.
4. Specify this information:
Screen - Select the screen for which to define status authorizations.
From Status - Specify the status from which to change authorizations.
To Status - Specify the status to which to change authorizations.
5. Click Save Record.

Viewing menu structure and permissions for user groups
View user group permissions such as which user groups have access to specific screens,
reports, or tabs. Verify security filters assigned to applicable user groups, or find screens
and/or report locations in menu structures.
1. Select Administration > Overview > Menu Structure and Permissions.
2. View the menu structure and permissions information for user groups.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1254 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Setting up menus for user groups
Set up menus on the Menus tab of the User Groups page. Creating a menu structure for
user groups is critical to database security and data integrity. The menu structure is displayed
in a tree structure that extends to four levels: one Main Menu level, two Sub-Menu levels, and
one Screen level. The Main Menu level may contain up to seven items. The Sub-Menu level
may contain up to 30 items, and the items may be a mix of folders and screens. Finally, the
Screen level may contain up to 30 items, but the items must be screens.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to set up menus, and then click the Menus tab.
3. View the tree structure, and then click the plus sign (+) beside the menu and/or submenu you wish to view. The menu and/or sub-menu are expanded, and then the folders
and screens that reside at various levels below the main menu and/or sub-menu are
displayed.
Click the minus sign (-) to collapse the menu.
4. In Available Screens, select the screen to add to the menu structure.
5. Drag and drop the screen name into the desired menu structure location on the tree
structure. The number of screens applied to the menu structure are verified. If less than
30 screens exist, the screen is added to the tree structure and expanded to illustrate the
level of the screen as necessary. Also the screen is inserted into the Screen
Permissions table and the Tab Permissions table as necessary.

• If you drop a screen into a sub-menu folder, the screen is added as the last child of the
sub-menu folder.
• If you drop a screen to another screen, the screen is added directly below the existing
screen.
• You may also drag and drop main menu folders, sub-menu folders, and screens within
the tree structure.
• You cannot make a higher-level item subordinate to a lower-level item, i.e., you cannot
move a main menu folder to the Screen level.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1255 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• When you delete a menu item, the screen is also deleted from the Screen Permissions
table and the Tab Permissions table as necessary.

Showing menu items
Show a folder, screen, or tab that is hidden in the tree structure.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to show menu items, and then click the Menus tab.
3. Select the folder, screen, or tab to show, and then click Show Menu Item.
4. Click Save Record.

Hiding menu items
Hide a folder, screen, or tab that is displayed in the tree structure.
1. Open the User Groups form.
2. Select the user group for which to hide menu items, and then click the Menus tab.
3. Select the folder, screen, or tab to hide, and then click Hide Menu Item.
4. Click Save Record.

Adding main menu folders
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to add main menu folders, and then click the Menus
tab.
3. Select the main menu-level menu structure to which to add a folder, and then click Add
Main Menu Folder. The Add Main Menu Folder pop-up window is shown if a main
menu-level menu structure is selected on the tree structure.
You cannot add a main-menu folder to the Sub-Menu or Screen level.
4. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1256 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Label - Specify the name of the new folder.
5. Click Submit.
The main-menu folder is added directly below the existing main-menu item.

Adding sub-menu folders
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to add sub-menu folders, and then click the Menus tab.
3. Select the main menu folder or sub-menu folder menu structure to which to add a folder,
and then click Add Sub-Menu Folder. The Add Sub-Menu Folder pop-up window is
shown if a main menu folder or sub-menu folder menu structure is selected on the tree
structure .
You cannot add a sub-menu folder to the Screen level.
4. Specify this information:
Label - Specify the name of the new folder.
5. Click Submit.
If you add a sub-menu folder to a main-menu folder, the sub-menu folder is added as
the last child of the main-menu folder. If you add a sub-menu folder to another sub-menu
folder, the screen is added directly below the existing sub-menu folder.

Changing label names
Change the label name of any menu item in the tree structure.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to change label names, and then click the Menus tab.
3. Select the menu item for which to change the label name, and then click Change Label.
4. Specify this information:
New Label - Specify the new label of the menu item.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1257 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Changing screen tab orders
Change screen tab orders to change the order that the tabs appear on the screen.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to change screen tab orders, and then click the Menus
tab.
3. Select the screen for which to change the tab order, and then click Change Tab Order.
4. Specify this information:
Error Message - Any error messages associated with the tab are shown.
5. Click Submit.

Copying menus
Copy menus from one user group to another user group.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group to which to copy menus, and then click the Menus tab.
3. Click Copy Menu. To Group is automatically populated with the current user group.
4. Specify this information:
From Group - Specify the user group from which to copy the menu.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing page-level help
View page-level help. Learn more information about the page, such as, what the page is, how
it is used, and so forth.
1. Browse to the screen for which to view help.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1258 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. On the toolbar, click Help.
3. View the help information.

Setting up scanner menus for user groups
Set up scanner menus on the Scanner Menus page of the User Groups form to associate
prompts to a menu structure. In the system, the menu structure is displayed in a tree structure
that extends to three levels: the Main Menu level, Sub-Menu level and DC Prompt, and Web
Service Prompt level.
In order to create folders of the menu structure, you must first create a screen for each folder.
See Creating and modifying screens.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to set up scanner menus, and then click the Scanner
Menus tab.
3. View the tree structure, and then click the plus sign (+) beside the menu and/or submenu you wish to view. The menu and/or sub-menu is expanded, and then the DC
Prompts and Web Service Prompts that reside at various levels below the main menu
and sub-menu are shown.
Click the minus sign (-) to collapse the menu.
4. Specify a Dataspy or Filter as necessary.
5. Under All Available Prompts select the prompt to add to the menu structure.
6. Drag and drop the prompt into the desired menu structure location on the tree structure.
The prompt is also inserted into the Screen Permissions table.

• If you drop a prompt into a sub-menu folder, the system adds the prompt as the last
child of the sub-menu folder. If you drop a prompt to another prompt, the prompt is
added directly below the existing prompt.
• You may also drag and drop main menu folders, sub-menu folders, DC prompts, and
Web Service prompts within the tree structure. You cannot make a higher-level item

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1259 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

subordinate to a lower-level item, in other words, you cannot move a main menu folder
to the DC Prompt or Web Service Prompt level.
• To delete a menu item, select the menu item to delete, and then click Delete Menu
Item. The record is deleted, and the tree structure is updated. The prompt is also
deleted from the Screen Permissions table as necessary.

Adding scanner main menu folders
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to add scanner main menu folders, and then click the
Scanner Menus tab.
3. Select the main menu-level menu structure to which to add a folder, and then click Add
Main Menu Folder. If a main menu-level menu structure is selected on the tree
structure, the Add Main Menu Folder pop-up window is shown.
You cannot add a main-menu folder to the Sub-Menu, DC Prompt, or Web
Service Prompt level.
4. Specify this information:
Menu Code - Specify the name of the new folder. Description is automatically
populated.
5. Click Submit.
The scanner main-menu folder is added directly below the existing scanner mainmenu item.

Adding scanner sub-menu folders
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to add scanner sub-menu folders, and then click the
Scanner Menus tab.
3. Select the main menu folder or sub-menu folder menu structure to which to add a folder,
and then click Add Sub-Menu Folder. If a main menu folder or sub-menu folder menu
structure is selected on the tree structure, the Add Sub-Menu Folder pop-up window is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1260 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

shown.
You cannot add a scanner sub-menu folder to the DC Prompt or Web Service
Prompt level.
4. Specify this information:
Menu Code - Specify the name of the new folder. Description is automatically
populated.
5. Click Submit.
If you add a scanner sub-menu folder to a scanner main-menu folder, the system
adds the scanner sub-menu folder as the last child of the scanner main-menu folder. If you
add a scanner sub-menu folder to another scanner sub-menu folder, the system adds the
scanner sub-menu folder directly below the existing scanner sub-menu folder.

Managing advanced options for user groups
Set up and modify as necessary any advanced menus for user groups like the menus for
mobile EAM apps or add-ons.

Activating iProcure security for user groups
Administer iProcure security for user groups by specifying which iProcure buttons users
groups can access.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to administer iProcure security, and then click the
iProcure Security tab.
3. Specify this information:
Active - Select to administer iProcure security per button. By selecting Active for a user
group, the system denies the user group access to the specified button functionality.
Clear the Active check box to turn off security per button. By clearing Active for
a user group, the system grants the user group access to the specified button
functionality.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1261 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Save Record.

Setting up Windows Mobile device menus for user groups
HxGN EAM Mobile menus can be configured in HxGN EAM application based on user group.
The following HxGN EAM Mobile screens can be configured: Regular Mobile screen, Data
Collection Prompt screen, Web Service Prompt screen, User Defined Mobile Grid screen.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to set up Windows Mobile menus, and then click the
Windows Mobile Menus tab.
3. Click Add Main Menu Folder. A system check determines if a main menu-level menu
structure is selected on the tree structure, and the Add Main Menu Folder pop-up
window is shown.
4. Specify this information:
Label - Specify the label for the Main Menu Folder.
5. Click Submit. The record is saved and Menu Details is updated.
6. Highlight a Main Menu Folder, and then click Add Sub-Menu Folder. The Add SubMenu Folder pop-up window is shown.
7. Specify this information:
Label - Specify the label for the Sub-Menu Folder.
8. Click Submit. The record is saved and Menu Details is updated.
9. Drag Mobile screen from the Available Screens list, and then drop it in the Main Menu
Folder or Sub-Menu Folder. The record is saved and Menu Details is updated.
10. Repeat above steps to configure all menu items.

• To show or hide a menu item, select a menu item and click Show Menu Item or Hide
Menu Item.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1262 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• To delete a menu item, select a menu item and click Delete Menu Item.
• To change the label of an existing menu item, select a menu item and click Change
Label.
• To change the icon of the Main Menu item, select a menu item and click Change Icon.
The Change Icon pop-up window is shown. Type in the name of New Icon without file
name extension.
• Main Menu icon configuration is only available on Quarter VGA version. Only .gif and
.jpg image file types are acceptable. The image file must be available in the same folder
as Mobile executables on the Mobile device.

Setting up Mobile for Transit app menus for user groups
Configure the interface or menus shown for user groups in the HxGN EAM Mobile for Transit
app.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to set up the menus in the HxGN EAM Mobile for Transit
app, and then open the Mobile Menus tab.
3. In the Actions drop-down, select one of these options:
Show Menu Item - Select the folder, screen, or tab to show, and then click Show Menu
Item.
Hide Menu Item - Select the folder, screen, or tab to hide, and then click Hide Menu
Item.
Add Main Menu Folders - Select the main menu-level menu structure to which to add a
folder, and then click Add Main Menu Folder. In the Add Main Menu Folder pop-up
window, specify the name of the new folder.
Add Sub-Menu Folders - Select the main menu folder or sub-menu folder menu
structure to which to add a folder, and then click Add Sub-Menu Folder. In the Add
Sub-Menu Folder pop-up window, specify the name of the new folder.
Change Label Names - Select the menu item for which to change the label name, and
specify the new label.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1263 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Change Tab Order - Select the screen for which to change the tab order.
Copy Menu - Specify the From Group from which to copy the menu.
4. Click Submit.

Setting up mobile app menus for user groups
Create, modify, or view the menus on the EAM mobile applications: Field Work, Advanced
Mobile, and Mobile Requestor for a user group.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to set up the mobile app menus, and then click the
Mobile App Menus tab.
3. In the Actions drop-down, select one of these options:
Show Menu Item - Select the folder, screen, or tab to show, and then click Show Menu
Item.
Hide Menu Item - Select the folder, screen, or tab to hide, and then click Hide Menu
Item.
Add Main Menu Folders - Select the main menu-level menu structure to which to add a
folder, and then click Add Main Menu Folder. In the Add Main Menu Folder pop-up
window, specify the name of the new folder.
Add Sub-Menu Folders - Select the main menu folder or sub-menu folder menu
structure to which to add a folder, and then click Add Sub-Menu Folder. In the Add
Sub-Menu Folder pop-up window, specify the name of the new folder.
Change Label - Select the menu item for which to change the label name, and specify
the new label.
Copy Menu - Specify the From Group from which to copy the menu.

Setting default values for user groups in mobile applications
Configure the default value settings for user groups in the HxGN EAM Transit application or
mobile devices. The data specified here defines the settings on the EAM Transit app.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1264 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to set default values in mobile applications, and then
click the Mobile Settings tab.
3. Specify this Work information:
Download Work Orders - Select the check box to download work orders by default for
the user group. Specify the Dataspy for which to download work orders in For Dataspy.
Download Employees - Select the check box to download employees by default for the
user group. Specify the trade, department, or employee for which to download
employees for the user group in For Trade, For Department, or For Employee.
Download Standard WOs - Select the check box to download standard work orders by
default for the user group.
Download Inspection Results - Select the check box to download inspection results
by default for the user group.
Download Task - Select the check box to download tasks by default for the user group.
Download Work Order Nonconformity - Select the check box to download
nonconformity work orders by default for the user group.
Download Permit to Work - Select the check box to download permits to work by
default for the user group. Specify the Dataspy for which to download permits to work in
For Dataspy.
4. Specify this Equipment information:
Download Equipment - Select the check box to download equipment by default for the
user group. Specify the department, location, class, category, equipment, or type for
which to download equipment for the user group in For Department, For Location, For
Class, For Category, For Equipment, or For Type.
Download Equipment Comments - Select the check box to download equipment
comments by default for the user group. Specify whether to download the equipment
comments for work orders only in For Downloaded WO only.
Download Equipment History - Select the check box to download equipment history
by default for the user group. Specify whether to download equipment history for work

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1265 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

orders only, or for the latest days in For Downloaded WO only, or For Latest (Days).
Download Equipment Custom Fields - Select the check box to download equipment
custom fields by default for the user group. Specify whether to download equipment
custom fields for only work orders in For Downloaded WO only.
Download Cost Codes - Select the check box to download equipment cost codes by
default for the user group. Specify the class or cost code for which to download
equipment cost codes in For Class or For Cost Code.
Download Meter Reading - Select the check box to download meter readings by
default for the user group.
Download Equipment History Comments - Select the check box to download
equipment history comments by default for the user group.
Download Linear Asset Information - Select the check box to download linear asset
information by default for the user group.
Download Equipment Nonconformity - Select the check box to download equipment
nonconformities by default for the user group.
Download Mobile Notebook - Select the check box to download mobile notebook
records by default for the user group.
In For Latest (Months), specify the latest number of months for which to download to
mobile by default for the user group. For example, specify 6 to limit the data
downloaded to the mobile device to the last 6 months of data.
5. Specify this Materials information:
Download Stores - Select the check box to download stores by default for the user
group.
Download Parts - Select the check box to download parts by default for the user group.
Specify the store or part for which to download for parts for the user group in For Store
or For Part.
In Stock and Quantity - Specify the required number of parts in stock at the default
store. The number you specify here becomes the default stock number the part must
meet before the part will be download for the user group. For example, specify 4, and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1266 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

only those parts with a quantity of 4 or more in stock (in the store) will be downloaded.
Download Bins - Select the check box to download bins by default for the user group.
Specify the store or bin to download for bins for the user group in For Store or For Bin.
Download Physical Inventory - Select the check box to download physical inventory
by default for the user group. Specify the store or line to download physical inventory for
the user group in For Store or For Line.
Download Supplier - Select this check box to download the list of suppliers by default
for the user group.
Download Asset Inventory - Select the check box to download asset inventory by
default for the user group.
Download Stock - Select the check box to download stock by default for the user
group.
Download PO Receipt - Select the check box to download purchase order receipts by
default for the user group.
6. Specify this Other information:
Download eSignature Settings - Select the check box to download the eSignature
settings by default for the user group. This check box determines the records displayed
on the eRecords Setup screen.
Download Document with Print on Work Order - Select the check box to download a
document when a work order is printed, by default for the user group.
7. Click Save Record.

Managing users
Now that you've defined organizations within your enterprise and created user groups to
further configure security and privileges, create users as members of user groups to grant
them access to the system. After setting up a new system user, associate the user with
multiple organizations, but establish a default organization for the user. When the user logs in
to the system, the user's default organization determines the user group permissions for that
system session.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1267 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating users
Set up new system users or modify existing user records.
Use the Revoke button to remove user records and all references to the record
for GDPR compliance. You must first select the user record to revoke, and then click Revoke.
This process is not reversible.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Setup.
2. Click New Record.
3. In the User ID field, provide a unique code identifying the user. Provide the full name or
a description of the user in the adjacent field.
4. In the User Details section, specify this information:
Language - Select the default language for the user.
User Group - Specify the user group to which the user is assigned.
Password - Provide a six to twelve character password for the user. The password is
masked with asterisks as you type.
Password Expiration Date - Specify the date the password expires.
External User ID - Include an external user ID to provide an alternate method of
identifying the user. The external user ID provides the method to identify the user based
on an identifier from an external system such as Active Directory or some alternate
identify provider.
External User ID must be unique for each user ID and external user ID in the
system except it can be the same as the user's User ID.
Mobile Auto Sync (minutes) - Specify in minutes the amount of time it will take for the
user's settings to auto sync to the mobile devices.
Success Msg. Timeout - Select the amount of time in which success messages will
time out.
First Screen - Optionally, specify the code identifying the default screen for the user
when logging in to the system.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1268 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Mobile First Screen - Optionally, specify the code identifying the default screen for the
user when logging in to an EAM mobile app.
Mobile App First Screen - Optionally, specify the code identifying the default screen for
the user when logging in to the Field Work, Advanced Mobile, or Mobile Requestor
mobile app.
Associated Supplier - Specify the supplier to associate with the user when ordering
parts.
Default Store - Specify the default store for the user from which parts will be issued or
returned for work orders, equipment, or requisitions.
5. Optionally, in the User Details section, select the check boxes to configure the user's
access, user interface, rights, and permissions across the application.

Option

Description

Buyer

Select if the user can generate requisitions and
purchase orders to buy materials and services.
Buyer must be selected for a user to show
the user as a potential purchaser of materials and
services in the lookups for Buyer.

Allow Dataspy Edits

Select if the user can edit Dataspies.
If unselected the Edit Dataspy button is
hidden throughout the system on every form for this
user.

Mobile Administrator

Select if the user is an administrator for HxGN EAM
Mobile.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1269 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Allow Global Dataspy
Configuration

Select if the user can configure global Dataspy
settings for all users.

Screener

Select if the user can screen work requests.

Screen Designer

Select if the user can set up the appearance of
screens.

Accessibility Mode

Select to enable accessibility mode for the user. If
selected, the user will operate in accessibility mode
when they next log in to HxGN EAM.

Allow Screen Cache Setup

Select to enable the Add to Screen Cache and
Remove from Screen Cache options for the user on
available screens.

Allow Creating Import Utility
Template

Select to enable the Create Import Utility Template
option for the user.

Enable Screen Cache Deck

Select to enable the user to view and access the
screen cache tabs at the bottom of all screens.

Enable Transition Animations Select to enable screen transitions for the user if the
user changes screens via the Screen Cache tabs at
the bottom of a screen.

Allow Viewing Private
Notebook

Select to enable the user to view private Notebook
screen records.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1270 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Allow Contains Search in
Dataspy and Quick Filter

Select to enable the user to access the "Contains"
and "Does Not Contain" operators when using
Dataspy filters to search.

Allow Changes to Mobile
Settings

Select to enable the user to make changes to settings
in mobile devices.

Enable Biometrics

Select to enable Face ID/Touch ID for the EAM
Mobile Transit app.

6. Optionally, in the User Limits section, specify the maximum amounts the user can enter
or approve for requisitions, invoices, non-purchase order invoices, purchase orders, and
pick tickets.

• Set Requisition, Purchase Order, Requisition Approval, and PO Approval at
either the header level or the line-item level in installation parameters. You do not
need to define them for every user.
• If you are setting up a new user in a multi-organization environment, the fields are
set on the Organizations tab of the User Groups page.
7. Optionally, click Upload Profile Picture to select and upload a profile picture for the
user record.
8. Click Save Record.

Configuring EAM product access for users
Select which EAM applications the user will access and be an active user.
Only a certain number of users can be active for each product. This number is
determined by the following parameter for each of the products listed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1271 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Installation parameter

Product

CDKEY

HxGN EAM

CDKEYREQ

HxGN EAM Requestor

7IMCDKEY

HxGN EAM Mobile

7IWCDKEY

HxGN EAM Connector

7IBCDKEY

HxGN EAM Barcoding

CSKEYAM

Advanced Mobile

CDKEYMR

Mobile Requestor

1. Select Administration > Security > User Setup.
2. Select the user record for which you are configuring product access.
3. Optionally, in the HxGN EAM Products section, select which applications the user will
access:

Option

Description

HxGN EAM

Select to indicate the user will use an active license.

Connector

Select to indicate the user will use an active license.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1272 of 2039

Analytics

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select to indicate the user will use an active license.
If you select HxGN EAM Analytics for the
user, you must also select HxGN EAM as a product
for the user if the user will create variables within
EAM.

Requestor

Select to indicate the user will use an active license.
For HxGN EAM Requestor users, specify the
Requestor user group in User Group to associate the
Requestor user with the Requestor user group. The
Requestor user may only submit work requests
and/or purchase requests.

Barcoding

Select to indicate the user will use an active license.

Mobile

Select to indicate the user will use an active license.

Mobile App

Select the mobile app the user will access. The user
will need an active license. Options include Field
Work, Advanced Mobile, or Mobile Requestor.

4. Click Save Record.

Associating users with organizations
After setting up new system users, associate them with specific organizations and add their
roles in the organizations.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Setup.
2. Select the user with whom to associate the organization, and then click the
Organizations tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1273 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Add Organization.
4. Specify this Organization Details information:
Organization - Specify the organization to associate with the user. The Common check
box is automatically selected if the organization is a common organization.
User Group - Specify the user's assigned user group.
Role - Specify the user's role in this organization. If this user has more than one role in
this organization, create a record for each role in the organization for the user.
The ROLESECU install parameter must be turned ON to assign a role to the
user for this organization. Role security is not supported when multi-org. security is
turned off. MULTIORG install parameter must be turned ON to enable role security.
5. Optionally, select the Default check box to indicate this organization is the default
organization for this user. The default organization is automatically shown when the user
logs in to EAM and on most forms that have an Organization lookup.
A user can have only one default organization.
6. Click Submit.

Associating users with KPIs
KPIs associated with a specific user are displayed in the KPI section of the user's Start
Center. Review, add, and remove KPIs associated with a specific user on this screen.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Setup.
2. Select the user for which to associate a KPI, and then click the KPIs tab.
3. Click Insert KPI Entry.
4. Specify this information:
Sequence Number - Specify the sequence in which the KPI will be displayed in the
Start Center for the user.
KPI Code - Specify the KPI to add to the Start Center for the user. Select one or more
KPI codes if desired for the specific user.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1274 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If you select more than one KPI code for the user, a new sequence number is
assigned to each KPI code, and these sequence numbers are generated based on the
INCRLINO installation parameter.
5. Select the Auto Refresh check box to automatically refresh the KPI every time the
Start Center is invoked for the user.
6. Click Submit.

Associating users with inboxes
Associate users with inbox entries to display entries in the inbox of the Start Center for that
specific user. Inbox entries associated with a user on this tab with display on that user's Start
Center inbox.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Setup.
2. Select the user for which to associate an inbox entry, and then click the Inboxes tab.
3. Click Insert Inbox Entry.
4. Specify this information:
Sequence Number - Specify a numeric value for the sequential order for the inbox
entry to display.
Sequential order is determined by the incremental value set by the INCRLINO
installation parameter.
Inbox Code - Specify the unique code that identifies the inbox entry. Select one or more
inbox codes if desired for the specific user.
If you select more than one inbox code for the user, a new sequence number is
assigned to each inbox code and these sequence numbers are generated based on the
INCRLINO installation parameter.
Folder - Specify the folder in which to keep the inbox based on the category.
5. Select the Auto Refresh check box to automatically refresh the inbox every time the
Start Center is invoked.
6. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1275 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Associating users with responsibilities
Associate users with specific responsibilities to indicate the person should perform that
particular work. An example of a user responsibility is reviewing a completed work order
checklist.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Setup.
2. Select the user for which to associate responsibilities, and then click the
Responsibilities tab.
3. Click Add Responsibility.
4. Specify this information:
Responsibility - Specify the task the user will be responsible for completing.
5. Click Submit.

Configuring advanced reporting options for users
Select consumer license or author license for the user if the user will use advanced reporting
functionality.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Setup.
2. Select the user record for which to configure advanced reporting options.
3. In the Advanced Reporting Options section, select the user's reporting option:
Consumer - Select to indicate the user is a reporting consumer. The consumer license
allows users to access the consumer and basic report features.
Author - Select to indicate the user is a reporting author. The author license allows
users to access the Report Author functionality in HxGN EAM to create reports as well
as access to the consumer and basic report features.
4. Click Save Record.

Changing passwords for users
Change passwords for individual users. Passwords are encrypted in the .xml configuration

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1276 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

files and are preceded by '{ENCR}' in the .xml file. The following types of passwords will be
encrypted: database schema passwords, Websphere/Weblogic administrator passwords, and
LDAP access-user passwords.
1. Open the appropriate .xml file, and then delete the encrypted password and the
‘{ENCR}’ prefix.
2. Provide the new (unencrypted) password.
3. Redeploy the application.

Unlocking accounts for users
In EAM, a user's ID and password are locked when the maximum number of login attempts is
reached. If you are a system administrator or other authorized user, unlock the user's account
to restore access to the system.

• If you are a system administrator and would like to modify the maximum number of login
attempts permitted, change the value of the SECUVIOL installation parameter.
• As a rule, the Unlock User button is hidden until the user account is locked.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Setup.
2. Select the user whose account is locked.
3. Click Unlock User. The user is unlocked, and the Unlock User button is hidden.

Enabling accessibility mode for users
Enable any user in HxGN EAM to work in accessibility mode. In accessibility mode, the
application is entirely keyboard-navigable and screen reader friendly.
Although the EAM application is supported by many different internet browsers, Infor
strongly recommends using Internet Explorer 11 when navigating the application in
accessibility mode.
1. Select Administration > Security > User Setup.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1277 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the user record you are enabling to work in accessibility mode. The Record View
tab is opened.
3. Click the Accessibility Mode check box.
4. Click Save Record.

• Although these changes play a big role in achieving an accessible environment, when
accessibility mode is enabled, a good portion of the changes that occur in the
application are not immediately noticeable by the user. The DOM or Document Object
Model for HxGN EAM has been significantly altered. Each field, label, tab, and link has
tags injected into the rendered DOM on the screen. This allows for screen readers such
as JAWS to discern between different field states, types of fields, and other on-screen
objects.
• To view the shortcuts available in the screen reader, see the software vendor's website.
For example, if the screen reader is JAWS, consult the JAWS application website.

Creating LDAP roles
Lightweight Directory Access Protocols (LDAP) can store hierarchical data definitions across
platforms. LDAP is most often used to store user credentials across many applications.
Create LDAP roles for automatic user creation.
If LDAP authentication is enabled, Call Center module log ins are authenticated by
HxGN EAM and LDAP settings are ignored.
1. Select Administration > Security > Role Setup.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Role - Specify a unique code identifying the role, and then provide a description of the
role in the adjacent field.
User Group - Specify the user group to which users of the role are assigned.
If you specified a Requestor user group in User Group, HxGN EAM Requestor
is automatically selected, and HxGN EAM is automatically cleared.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1278 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Default Org. - Specify the default organization of the role.
Language - Select a default language for the role.
Success Msg. Timeout - Specify the amount of time in which success messages
will timeout.
First Screen - Specify the code identifying the default screen opened when users of the
role log in to the application.
4. Optionally, select the HxGN EAM Mobile Administrator check box if users of the role
are administrators of HxGN EAM Mobile Full VGA.
5. Optionally, select the Buyer check box if the user of the role can buy materials or
services.
6. Optionally, select the Screener check box if the users of the role can screen work
requests.
7. Optionally, in the HxGN EAM Products sections, select which applications users of the
role will access.

• At least one check box must be selected for an HxGN EAM product. If Digital
Work is selected, a value must be entered in the drop-down.
• If users of the role will be Requestor users, specify the Requestor user group for
User Group to associate the Requestor user with the Requestor user group.
• The Requestor user may only submit work requests and/or purchase requests.
• You cannot select HxGN EAM and HxGN EAM Requestor for the same user;
however, you must select either HxGN EAM or HxGN EAM Requestor.
8. Optionally, in the Advanced Reporting Options section, select the user's role in the
reporting process.
9. Optionally, in the Role Limits section, specify the maximum amounts users of the role
can enter or approve for requisitions, invoices, non-purchase order invoices, purchase
orders, and pick tickets.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1279 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

10. Click Save Record.

Maintaining electronic records and signatures
You can create electronic records, or "snapshots," of events that occur in the database. A
snapshot preserves the entire record, including information related to other database tables,
to provide historical information related to the progress of your operation. For example, a
snapshot of a work order header will include all information on the header as well as the
associated activities. You can also print and export snapshots to external formats such as
Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (.PDF).
In addition to creating electronic records of information in the database, you can set up the
system to require an electronic signature to authorize status changes to specific records. The
electronic signature is attached to an entity, and when a system user changes the status of a
record based on specific criteria, the system prompts the user for an ID, password, and a
reason for the signature (e.g., review, approval, responsibility, etc.).
You can also select to associate certifications with electronic signatures to facilitate the proper
authorization of status changes by requiring authorized users to enter a certification number
and certification type when entering their signature, which is required by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) for electronic signatures. The FAAMOD installation parameter
determines whether you are required to enter a certification number and certification type for
electronic signatures. If FAAMOD is set to ON, the system displays Certification Number
and Certification Type on the Electronic Signature dialog box and you must enter a valid
certification number and type to sign the record.
See Signing Records.

Defining entities for electronic records and signatures
Define entities to take a snapshot of the record or require an electronic signature when you
change the status of the record attached to the entity. For example, if your organization
requires electronic records of the specific stages of a purchase order, you can define the
snapshot for the PORD entity. Or, if your organization requires electronic signatures of status
changes to work orders, you can define the electronic signature for the EVNT entity. The
system takes the snapshot of the record and/or prompts you (or any user) for an ID,
password, and reason when you save the change to the database.
The following table lists the entities for which you can create electronic records and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1280 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

signatures:

Entity

Description

Information recorded

EVNT

Event

Work order, activities, repairable parts, permits

OBJ

Equipment

Equipment and warranties

RECV

Receipt (for status
transactions)

Receipt and receipt lines

RETN

Returns

Return and return lines

STOS

Store to Store (for status
transactions)

Store-to-store transaction and lines

PROJ

Project

Project and budget

PICK

Pick Ticket

Pick tickets and lines

PORD

Purchase order

Purchase order and lines

REQ

Requisition

Requisition and lines

RFQ

Request for Quotations

RFQR

Quotation

INRH

Inspection result header

Quotations and lines

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1281 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

BORD

Blanket order

Blanket order and lines

INSP

Inspection results

Part inspection results

INV

Invoice

Invoice and lines

CAMP

Campaign

PTW

Permit to Work

CASE

Case management

STTK

Stocktake (for
remembering codes)

FTIC

Fleet tickets

CHNO

Change notice

PREQ

Production request

CUAJ

Compatible units
adjustments

Change notices and lines

1. Select Administration > Security > eRecords Setup.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Entity - Select the entity for which to define electronic records and/or signatures.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1282 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Signature Required - Select to indicate that the status change requires a signature.
From Status - Specify the old status of the entity.
To Status - Specify the new status of the entity.
4. Click Save Record.

Signing records
Upon changing the status of a record that has been defined as requiring an electronic
signature, the system prompts you to enter a user ID, password, and reason for the signature.
The user ID and password are the same ID and password used to enter the system; however,
any person with a valid user ID and password can sign electronic records, even if they are not
physically logged in to the system. After verification of the user information, the system takes
a snapshot of the record and stores it in the database. If you update multiple records at one
time, the system prompts you for a signature for every record.
1. Open any form requiring electronic signatures for status changes.
2. Query for the record for which to change the status. Status changes can include record
insertion, deletions, or any specific change as defined on the eRecords Setup form.
3. Change the status of the selected record, and then click Save Record.
4. Specify this information:
User ID - Specify the user ID.
Password - Specify the password associated with the user ID.
Signature Type - Specify the reason for the electronic signature, e.g., review, approval,
etc. Define signature types for the ESTP entity on the System Codes form.
Certification Number - Specify the unique certification number for the eSignature.
Certification Type - Modify the certification type as necessary.

• The FAAMOD installation parameter determines whether you are required to enter
a certification number and certification type for electronic signatures. If FAAMOD is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1283 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

set to ON, the system displays Certification Number and Certification Type on
the eSignature pop-up window, and you must enter a valid certification number
and type to sign the record. The system automatically populates Certification
Type based on the selected Certification Number. Certification numbers and
types are associated with employee records on the Qualifications tab of the
Employees form. The Qualifications tab is not available in HxGN EAM for SQL
Server.
• The system only displays certification numbers and types that are associated with
training records for which the employee is currently qualified in the lookups for
Certification Number and Certification Type.
• Additionally, the system associates certification numbers and types with
employees based on the user group of the employee on the Employees form.
Therefore, if FAAMOD is set to ON, you must select a User for each employee
who is required to enter a certification number and type when signing electronic
records.
5. Click OK.

• If you click Cancel, the form is closed and changes are not recorded.
• The system does not allow changes to the record without entering an electronic
signature. Further, if you enter an invalid or expired ID and password, or if you do not
enter a valid certification number and type if applicable, or if you do not have status
change authorization, the system records an access violation and the electronic
signature will not be recorded. If the number of unsuccessful signature attempts
exceeds the number specified in the SECUVIOL installation parameter, the system
locks the user. Contact your System Administrator to unlock users.

Configuring electronic records and signatures for cGMP
equipment
Create electronic records and/or require electronic signatures for work performed on cGMP
equipment. Current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) are a set of standards established
by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to regulate the manufacturing
processes of the food, pharmaceutical, and medical equipment industries.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1284 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Many companies have a combination of equipment regulated by cGMP standards as well as
equipment not regulated by cGMP standards. Configure the system to take a snapshot of a
record or require an electronic signature only when the work is performed on cGMP
equipment.
To indicate that a piece of equipment is subject to cGMP standards, select cGMP on
the Record View page of the Assets, Positions, or Systems form.
To configure the system to create electronic records and/or require signatures for only cGMP
equipment, set the CGMPONLY installation parameter to YES.
You must also define the electronic records/signatures for the EVNT entity on the eRecords
Setup form. See Defining entities for electronic records and signatures.
If CGMPONLY is set to YES and you have configured electronic records/signatures for the
EVNT entity, the system creates an electronic record and/or requires a signature for work
orders created/generated only for cGMP equipment.
If you create a PM route that is associated with a work order containing cGMP
equipment, the system creates an electronic record and/or requires a signature for the work
order associated with the cGMP equipment in the PM route. The system does not create a
separate electronic record or require a signature for each child work order on the PM route.
The electronic signatures for cGMP equipment configuration apply to work orders
created/generated for cGMP equipment using the following forms:
• Work Orders form
• Work Orders Quick Close form
• Service Requests form
• Generate/Release Work Orders form

Granting status change authorization permissions
Users have different levels of authority within the system. For example, a manager might
have authority to approve purchase requisitions. A planner might have authority to cancel a
work order. A project manager might have authority to freeze a project.
Set up authorization levels for entity status values when records for the entity are created or

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1285 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

when their status is modified. Set authorization levels for user groups or individual users.
1. Open the Status Change Authorizations form.
2. Click Add Authorization.
3. Specify this information:
User Group - Specify the user group for which to define the status change
authorization. Specify * if the authorization applies to all groups. The user group
description is automatically populated.
User Group and User cannot both have a value of *.
User - Specify the user for whom to define the status change authorization. Specify * if
the authorization applies to all users in the user group.
Entity - Specify the entity over which the user has authority.
From Status - Specify the status code the user can change.
To Status - Specify the status code to which the user can change the old status code.
If you want the group to have authorization over all aspects of a particular
process, enter all of the available status changes for that process. Specify * for any
status and - for "No status yet" (such as to indicate a new record).
User Specific Auth. - Select to indicate that the authorization is for this user only.
4. Click Submit.

Interface configuration
This section provides information about configuring the HxGN EAM interface. Personalize the
Start Center by setting up inbox entries, KPIs, and chart controls. Modify the page layout of
record view, detail view, and list-detail view pages.
This section describes HxGN EAM functions that only a system administrator has
rights to perform.

Personalizing the Start Center

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1286 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Personalize the Start Center to display inbox entries and KPIs. Inbox entries notify you of
changes in the database, and KPIs measure productivity or efficiency with processes or workrelated activities.

Personalizing the inbox
The inbox displays notifications (inbox entries) of changes in the system database on the
Start Center. An example of inbox entries is the number of work orders with associated
warranties for which there have been no claims submitted.
Users can open screens necessary to complete actions or activities associated with inbox
entries by double-clicking the inbox entry. For example, launch the Work Orders form directly
from the inbox entry to approve the work orders requiring approval. A Dataspy entered for
inbox entries automatically searches for and retrieves the records associated with an inbox
entry to the called screen.
Inbox entries can be assigned to specific user groups, specific users, or defined as public
entries that are displayed for all users. After personalizing the inbox, set system privileges for
users to modify their inbox by adding and/or deleting entries and modifying the order and
sequence in which entries are displayed.

Setting up inbox entries
Set up inbox entries by identifying the notifications that you wish to be displayed in the inbox.
Select a SQL statement for the entry to query the database for the appropriate information to
retrieve to the inbox. Select an appropriate screen to associate with the entry, such as the
Work Orders form for an inbox entry for work orders that currently require approval. Specify a
Dataspy to enable the system to automatically query for the records associated with the inbox
entry to the called screen. You can also designate whether the entry is accessible to all users
(public), or specify the user groups for which to enable the entry.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > Inbox Setup.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Inbox Code - Specify a unique code identifying the inbox entry, and then enter a
description of the activity to complete for the inbox entry in the adjacent field. The

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1287 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

description will be displayed in the Inbox on the Start Center.
SQL Statement - Specify the SQL statement to calculate the number of applicable
records for the inbox entry. SQL Statement Text is automatically populated.
SQL Statement cannot exceed the performance score limit defined in the
INBXSCOR installation parameter.
Public - Select to give all user groups access to the inbox entry.
Inbox entries for which user groups have been associated cannot be public.
Screen - Specify the system screen for which to enable a hyperlink to call the screen for
the inbox entry.
If you update Screen, Dataspy is cleared.
Forms Screen - Specify the HxGN EAM Oracle Forms screen for which to enable a
hyperlink to call the screen for the inbox entry.
Dataspy - Select the Dataspy used to retrieve records for the called system screen.
Filter - Specify the where clause with which to associate the inbox entry.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining inbox ranges
Define inbox ranges to specify a High Value and a Low Value for each of the scoring ranges
defined for an inbox.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > Inbox Setup.
2. Select the inbox for which to define ranges, and then click the Ranges tab.
3. Click Add Range.
4. Specify this information:
Low Value - Specify the value for the low threshold of the inbox range.
High Value - Specify the value for the high threshold of the inbox range.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1288 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Color - Select the color to use to display the inbox field box.
Description - Specify a description of the icon to be displayed for the inbox range on
the Start Center.
5. Click Submit.

Associating inbox entries with user groups
Associate inbox entries with user groups to display entries in the inbox for only specific user
groups.
Inbox entries for which Public has been selected cannot be assigned to specific user
groups.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > Inbox Setup.
2. Select the inbox entry with which to associate user groups, and then click the User
Groups tab.
3. Click Add User Group.
4. Specify this information:
User Group - Specify the user group to which to associate the inbox entry.
5. Click Submit.

Associating inbox entries with users
Associate inbox entries with specific users to display the entries in the inbox of the user's
Start Center. Alternately, you can review or remove a user's associated inbox entries.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > Inbox Setup.
2. Select the inbox entry with which to associate an user, and then click the Users tab.
3. Click Add User.
4. Specify this information:
User ID - Specify the user's unique ID to which to associate the inbox entry.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1289 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

User ID is a multi-select lookup which allows you to select more than one user
to associate to an inbox entry. If you select more than one user to associate to the inbox
entry, a new sequence number is assigned to each user, and these sequence numbers
are generated based on the INCRLINO installation parameter.
Folder - Specify the folder in which to keep the inbox based on the category.
5. Select the Auto Refresh check box to automatically refresh the inbox every time the
Start Center is invoked for this specific user.
6. Click Submit.

Personalizing KPIs
The Start Center displays key performance indicators (KPIs) and their scores for users. KPIs
are user-defined parameters that measure productivity or efficiency associated with
processes and/or work order-related activities. An icon is displayed on the Start Center for
each KPI that enables users to view the status of their work environment with respect to the
KPIs specific to their job, as well as the current score for each KPI.
After defining KPIs, grant users access to the KPIs. KPIs can either be user-group specific,
user-specific, or public. Public KPIs can be displayed for all users. Define system privileges
for users to personalize their Start Center to display KPIs based on their preferences.
After personalizing the KPIs, the system administrator must start the KPI driver to
enable the system to recalculate KPI scores based on the specified interval for each KPI. See
Setting up jobs.
To personalize your company’s KPI images, replace the default images provided by the
system. KPI images are stored in the following location on the application server:
• For Jboss installations: APP_HOME/jboss/shared/deploy/web.war/images/default
• For Websphere installations: IBMHttpServer_HOME/web.war/images/default
• For Weblogic installations: APP_HOME/apache/web.war/images/default

Setting up KPIs
Set up key performance indicators (KPIs) for the Start Center. For example, define a KPI to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1290 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

measure the number of maintenance dollars spent for a production line during a month.
Select a SQL select statement for the KPI to calculate the current value for the KPI. Select a
screen for which to enable a hyperlink for the KPI, and then enter a Dataspy to enable the
system to automatically query for the records associated with the KPI to the called screen.
You can also designate whether the KPI is accessible to all users.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > KPI Setup.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
KPI Code - Specify a unique code identifying the KPI, and then enter a description of
the KPI in the adjacent field. The description will be displayed for the KPI on the Start
Center.
Out of Service - Select to indicate the KPI should not display in KPI lookups.
4. Specify this KPI Details information:
Frequency - Specify the frequency in days with which the KPI will be recalculated.
SQL Statement - Specify the SQL statement to calculate the current value for the KPI.
The system automatically populates SQL Statement Text.
SQL Statement cannot exceed the performance score limit defined in the
KPISCOR installation parameter.
Type - Select the KPI display type to represent the data in the Start Center. For
example, select Donut to represent the key performance indicators in a gauge graph.
5. Specify this KPI Options information:
UOM - Specify the unit of measure for the KPI.
Maintain History - Select to record the history of the KPI.
Public - Select to give all user groups access to the KPI.
KPIs for which user groups have been associated cannot be Public.
Parent - Select to indicate that the KPI is a parent KPI.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1291 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Donut Radius % - If you selected Donut as the KPI type, enter the radius percentage
to represent the donut.
Gauge Min. - If you selected Donut as the KPI type, enter the minimum gauge value.
Gauge Max. - If you selected Donut as the KPI type, enter the maximum gauge value.
6. Specify this KPI Hyperlink information:
Screen - Specify the system screen for which to enable a hyperlink to call the screen for
the KPI.
If you update Screen, Dataspy is cleared.
Forms Screen - Specify the HxGN EAM Forms screen for which to enable a hyperlink
to call the screen for the KPI.
Dataspy - Select the Dataspy used to retrieve records for the called system screen.
Filter - Specify the where clause with which to associate the KPI.
7. Specify this KPI Display Options information:
KPI Display Options - Select either Normalized Values (Weighted Average), Actual
Values (Weighted Average), or Actual Values (Summed).
Parent must be selected to enable KPI Display Options.
8. Click Save Record.

Defining KPI ranges
Define KPI ranges to specify a High Value and a Low Value for each of the scoring ranges
defined for a KPI.
Specify a Normal Score that corresponds with each high and low value for a KPI range. The
normal score for a child KPI is rolled up to any parent KPIs when calculating the Current
Value and Normal Score for the parent KPIs.
For example, a child KPI measures the productivity of a production line during a month. The
target goal for the KPI is 200,000 units per month. If the production line produces between
200,000 to 133,333 units per month, the normal score for the KPI is 3, which indicates an

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1292 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

excellent score. 133,332 to 66,666 units is 2, which indicates an average score. 66,665 units
or less is 1, which indicates a poor score.

• You should maintain consistency when defining normalized scores for KPI ranges. For
example, if you define a normalized score based on a scale of 1 to 3 for one KPI, use
that same scale for other KPIs.
• You cannot enter a Normal Score if the KPI is a parent KPI.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > KPI Setup.
2. Select the KPI for which to define KPI ranges, and then click the Ranges tab.
3. Click Add Range.
4. Specify this information:
Low Value - Specify the value for the low threshold of the KPI range.
High Value - Specify the value for the high threshold of the KPI range.
Normal Score - Specify the numeric value that represents the score based on the
values entered for Low Value and High Value.
Image Path - Specify the URL file path to the image the system will use to display the
KPI range on the Start Center. To enter the path to the image, Type must be Image on
the KPI Setup screen.
Color - Select the color to use to display the KPI range on the Start Center. To specify
the color, Type cannot be Image on the KPI Setup screen.
Description - Specify a description of the displayed KPI range on the Start Center.
5. Click Submit.

Associating KPIs with user groups
Associate KPIs with user groups to enable them to display only the KPIs that are associated
with their user group in the KPI list.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1293 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You can only assign KPIs to user groups for which Public has not been selected.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > KPI Setup.
2. Select the KPI with which to associate user groups, and then click the User Groups tab.
3. Click Add User Group.
4. Specify this information:
User Group - Specify the user group to which to associate the KPI. The system
automatically populates the user group description.
5. Click Submit.

Associating KPIs with users
Associate KPIs with specific users to display the KPIs in the KPI list of the user's Start
Center. Alternately, you can review or remove a user's associated KPI.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > KPI Setup.
2. Select the KPI with which to associate users, and then click the Users tab.
3. Click Add User.
4. Specify this information:
User ID - Specify the user's unique ID to which to associate the KPI.
User ID is a multi-select lookup which allows you to select more than one user
to associate to a KPI. If you select more than one user to associate to the KPI, a new
sequence number is assigned to each user, and these sequence numbers are
generated based on the INCRLINO installation parameter.
5. Select the Auto Refresh checkbox to automatically refresh the KPI every time the Start
Center is invoked for the specific user(s).
6. Click Submit.

Defining KPI structures

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1294 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define KPI structures to create parent/child relationships between KPIs. The scores for child
KPIs roll up to all of the children’s parents. For example, you create a parent KPI to measure
the overall efficiency of a production department during a month. You associate the parent
KPI with child KPIs whose scores will roll up to the score for the parent KPI. One child KPI
measures the number of units that the production line produces during a month. A second
child KPI measures the maintenance costs for a production line during a month.
Each of the child KPIs must be assigned a weight based on their importance, and the sum of
all child KPIs assigned for a parent KPI must be equal to 100. The system uses the value
assigned for the weight of a child KPI to translate the normal score for a child KPI when rolling
the score up to a parent KPI. For example, when calculating the score for the parent KPI, you
consider the number of units produced to be more important than the number of maintenance
dollars spent. Therefore, you assign a weight of 70 for the number of units produced and a
weight of 30 to the maintenance dollars spent.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > KPI Setup.
2. Select the KPI for which to define structures, and then click the Children tab. Total
Weight (Must equal 100%) is automatically populated with the total weight of all child
KPIs. If no child KPIs are currently associated with the parent KPI, then Total Weight
(Must equal 100%) is populated with 0.
You can only associate child KPIs to parent KPIs. You must select Parent on
the KPI Codes form to indicate that a KPI is a parent KPI. See Setting up KPIs.
3. Click Add Child KPI.
4. Specify this information:
Child KPI - Specify the child KPI component for the parent KPI.
Weight (%) - Specify the weight for the child KPI component to use when calculating
the Current Value and Normal Score for the parent KPI.
The sum of the weight of all child KPI components defined for a parent KPI
must be 100%.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing KPI history

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1295 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View KPI history to review the results of KPI calculations. A record in KPI history is generated
when the score for a KPI is calculated. Updating the KPI is optional.

• KPI drivers must be running to populate the History page.
• You can only view the history of a KPI if you selected Maintain History on the KPI
Codes form.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > KPI Setup.
2. Select the KPI for which to view history, and then click the History tab.
3. View the KPI history.

Personalizing charts
In addition to KPIs and inbox entries, the Start Center displays charts based on user-defined
SQL statements. A chart is a graphical representation of data such as work orders assigned
to specific departments.
After defining charts, grant users access to the charts. Charts can either be user-group
specific or public. Public charts are displayed for all users. Define system privileges for users
to personalize their Start Center to display charts based on their preferences.

Setting up charts
Set up and update charts to display in the Start Center using SQL statements to define chart
data.
To set up charts:
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > Chart Setup.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Chart Code - Enter a unique code identifying the chart, and then enter a description in
the adjacent field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1296 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Out of Service - Select to indicate the chart should not display in the Start Center.
SQL Statement - Enter the SQL statement which will define the chart data displayed.
Group By Text - Enter the type by which to group the chart data. For example, for a
chart displaying open work orders, enter Department to display the open work orders
by specific department.
Value Type - Select the value type for which the chart will display data. For example,
select Number to display numerical representations of data in the chart.
Public - Select to indicate the chart should be available to all users in the Start Center.
4. Right-click on the form, and then select Group By Translations to view and edit the
translations for Group By Text.
5. Click Save Record.

Associating charts with user groups
Associate charts with user groups to enable them to display only the charts that are
associated with their user group in the chart list in the Start Center.
You can only assign charts to user groups for which Public has not been selected on
the Chart Setup form.
To associate charts with user groups:
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > Chart Setup.
2. Select the chart with which to associate user groups, and then click the User Groups
tab.
3. Click Add User Group.
4. Specify this information:
User Group - Enter the user group to which to associate to the chart. The system
automatically populates the user group description.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1297 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Modifying the Overview screen
Modify the layout of the Overview screen. Create, view, and modify widgets for use on the
Overview screen. Layout options include selecting the number of columns displayed on the
screen. Drop and drag widgets to move them around on the Overview screen.
1. Select Operations > Overview.
2. Click Edit Mode.
3. Click Add Widget.
4. Specify the type of widget to add in Type, and then click Submit.
5. Click Options to configure the widget to show data after adding the widget.

Option

Description

Edit

Select options based on the type of widget specified
in Type.

Personalize

Select the color of your preference to personalize the
widget.

Refresh

Click to refresh the widget with the new options.

Delete

Click to delete the widget.

6. Drag and drop widgets to move them around on the screen.
7. Optionally, click Edit Layout to modify the layout of the screen. In the Edit Layout popup window, specify the Layout Type.
8. Click Submit.
9. Click Exit Edit Mode.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1298 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Configuring exports and imports
Create an export file for KPIs, inbox items, custom fields, copied screens, task plans, job
plans, and custom reports using the export configuration feature. Import the files created into
another EAM implementation.

Exporting KPIs
Export a set of KPIs to an export file.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Export Configuration.
2. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields and many attributes of the equipment, and then click Run. KPI records that
are not Out of Service or Withdrawn are displayed.
3. Select the KPI to export, and then click Export.
4. Select the folder in which to save the file, and then click Save.

Exporting inbox items
Export a set of inbox items to an export file.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Export Configuration.
2. Click the Export Inbox Items tab.
3. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields and many attributes of the equipment, and then click Run. Inbox records that
are not Out of Service or Withdrawn are displayed.
4. Select the inbox item to export, and then click Export.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1299 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Select a folder to save the file, and then click Save.

Exporting custom fields
Export a set of custom fields to an export file.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Export Configuration.
2. Click the Export Custom Fields tab. No records are displayed until you conduct a
search.
3. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields and many attributes of the equipment, and then click Run. Only custom fields
records that are not Out of Service or Withdrawn are displayed.
4. Select the custom field to export, and then click Export.
5. Select a folder in which to save the file, and then press Save.

Exporting Flex SQL statements
Export a set of Flex SQL statements to an export file.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Export Configuration.
2. Click the Export Flex SQL tab.
3. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields and many attributes of the equipment, and then click Run.
4. Select the Flex SQL statement to export, and then click Export.
5. Select a folder in which to save the file, and then press Save.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1300 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Exporting web service prompts
Export a set of web service prompts to an export file.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Export Configuration.
2. Click the Export Web Service Prompts tab. Records are not displayed until you
conduct a search.
3. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields and many attributes of the equipment, and then click Run.
4. Select the web service prompt to export, and then click Export.
5. Select a folder to save the file, and then click Save.

Exporting custom reports
Export a set of custom reports to an export file.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Export Configuration.
2. Click the Export Custom Reports tab.
3. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields and many attributes of the equipment, and then click Run.
4. Select the custom report to export, and then click Export.
5. Select a folder in which to save the file, and then press Save.

Exporting user defined grids
Export a set of user defined grids to an export file.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1301 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Export Configuration.
2. Click the Export User Defined Grids tab. Records are not displayed until you conduct
a search.
3. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields and many attributes of the equipment, and then click Run.
4. Select the user defined grid to export, and then click Export.
5. Select a folder to save the file, and then click Save.

Exporting alerts
Export a set of alerts to an export file.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Export Configuration.
2. Click the Export Alerts tab. Records are not displayed until you conduct a search.
3. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields and many attributes of the equipment, and then click Run.
4. Select the alert to export, and then click Export.
5. Select a folder to save the file, and then click Save.

Exporting screens
Export a set of copied screens and the associated configuration details such as screen
designer changes to an export file.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Export Configuration.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1302 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click the Export Copied Screens tab.
3. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields and many attributes of the equipment, and then click Run.
4. Select the copied screens to export.
5. Specify the Screen Designer User Group. This will determine the screen designer
options available to export.
6. Click Export.
7. Select a folder in which to save the file, and then press Save.

Exporting task plans and job plans
Export a set of task plans and job plans including the associated jobs and other details to an
export file.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Export Configuration.
2. Click the Task Plans tab.
3. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields and many attributes of the equipment, and then click Run.
4. Select the task plans to export.
5. Click Export.
6. Select a folder in which to save the file, and then press Save.

Importing files

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1303 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Import KPIs, custom fields, inbox item files, Flex SQL statements, copied screens, task plans,
job plans, and custom reports created using the Export Configuration feature.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Import Configuration.
2. On the Import tab, click Browse, and then select the file to import from the file location.
Click View File Contents to view the file details.
3. Click Import.

Uploading documents in a batch for import configuration
Upload multiple documents that belong to a specific organization.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Import Configuration.
2. Click the Batch Document Upload tab.
3. Specify the Organization to which the uploaded documents will belong.
4. Click Add.
5. Select the files to upload, and then click Upload.
6. Click Refresh. All records are removed from the grid.

Exporting base configuration
Export a large number of configuration items to specially formatted files.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Configuration Manager.
2. Select one of the following options for Delivery Method:
Save on Client - Select to save the files on the client's machine. Path is automatically
populated on the server where the file will be initially saved.
The export process may take a while to successfully process and the system
could timeout during the process. If this happens, click the Status tab to check the
results of the import.
Save on Server - Select to save the files on the server.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1304 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Email Address - Specify the email address to which to have email notifications sent
when the configuration process is complete.
Include file in Email - Select to receive a second email with the file attached. Path is
automatically populated on the server where the file will be initially saved.
Click Select All to select all of the export options.
3. Specify this User Groups and Permissions information:
User Groups and Permissions - Select to export user groups and their permissions,
including hyperlinks, screen designer changes, and menus.
Export Single User Group - Specify a single user group to export. Only permissions for
this user group will be included in the export file.
Status Authorizations - Select to export status authorizations.
4. Specify this General Setup information:
Users - Select to export users and their related organizations, including personal
Dataspies and report filters.
Organizations - Select to export organizations.
Multi-org Security - Select to export multi-org security.
Install Parameters - Select to export install parameters.
Closing Codes - Select to export closing codes.
Trades - Select to export trades.
Audit Setup - Select to export audit setup.
Screens and Reports - Select to export screens and reports, including changes made
to existing screens and any new screens. New reports are not included.
Departments - Select to export departments.
Locales - Select to export locales.
Category - Select to export categories.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1305 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Reliability Ranking - Select to export reliability ranking values.
5. Specify this Configuration information:
Custom Fields - Select to export custom fields, including classes.
Flex SQL - Select to export Flex SQL.
Updated Text - Select to export updated text.
System Codes - Select to export system codes.
Mobile - Select to export HxGN EAM Mobile configuration settings.
Include Translations - Select to include translations in the export.
6. Specify this Optional Setup information:
Messenger Setup - Select to export messenger setup.
KPIs and Inboxes - Select to export KPIs and Inboxes.
Account Detail Setup - Select to export account detail setup.
eRecord Setup - Select to export eRecord Setup.
Web Service Prompts - Select to export web service prompts.
Call Center Setup - Select to export call center setup.
Data Collection Setup - Select to export data collection setup.
eRecord Setup - Select to export eRecord Setup.
Email Setup - Select to export email setup.
7. Click Export.
8. Select the folder in which to save the file, and then click Save.

Importing base configuration
Import files created by the Configuration Manager.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1306 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Configuration Manager.
2. Click the Import Base Configuration tab.
3. Select one of the following options:
Do Not Wait for File to be Imported - Select to execute the import without waiting for
the system to complete the process.
To check the results of the Import, click the Status tab.
Wait for File to be Imported - Select to execute the import while waiting for completion.
The import process may take a while to successfully process and the system
could timeout during the process. If this happens, click the Status tab to check the
results of the import.
4. Specify this information:
File Location - Specify the location of the file created during the Export process. Click
Browse to locate the file.
Click View File Contents to view the contents of the file.
Notification Email Address - Specify the email address to which the system sends
email notification once the process is complete.
5. Click Import.

Viewing the status of imports and exports
View the status of all imports and exports performed on the system as well as the history of
imports and exports.
To view the status of imports and exports:
1. Select Administration > Setup > Configuration Manager.
2. Click the Status tab.
File Path is a hyperlink that can be used to download an export file once it has
been successfully created.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1307 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Select the record for which to view status details, and then click View Status Details.
4. Select the group for which to view error details, and then click View Error Details.
5. View the error details.
6. Click Close.
7. Click Close.

Exporting configurations
Create test environments to build configurations before implementation and build templates
for configuring EAM. You can select individual or several records to export to an XML file. This
file can then be imported into other EAM implementations.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Configuration Manager – Export.
2. Select the check boxes for the records you want to export.
Click Select All to select all of the export options. However, the Include File in
Email check box must be selected manually when the Select All or Unselect All button
is clicked.
3. Alternately, click Preview to view the available records before export. See Previewing
configurations for export.
4. Click Export.
If no other export or import configurations are running, the system displays a
message stating that the export process has started and to see the Status tab for more
information. If the system times out during the process, click the Status tab to check the
results of the import. When the export process is complete, a notification email is sent to
the user. If the Include File in Email check box is selected, the user will receive an
email that includes the path to download the export file from the server. A second email
will follow that includes the export file as a compressed attachment.
5. Click the Status tab.
6. Click the link to download the export file from the server.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1308 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Previewing configurations for export
Select many configurations to be previewed on the Configuration Manager – Export screen
before exporting. Preview the records selected for export on the Export Configuration tab.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Configuration Manager – Export.
2. Select the Export Configuration tab.
3. Click Preview to view the available records for export.
You can choose to export the records directly and skip the preview option. See
Exporting configurations.

Viewing the status of exports
1. Select Administration > Setup > Configuration Manager > Configuration Manager –
Export.
2. Click the Status tab.
File Path is a hyperlink that can be used to download an export file once it has
been successfully created.
3. Select the record for which to view status details, and then click View Status Details.
4. View the status details.
5. Click Close.

Importing configurations
Import files created by the Configuration Manager – Export process.
1. Select Administration > System Configuration > Configuration Manager – Import.
2. Select one of these options:

Option

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1309 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Do Not Wait for File to be
Imported

Select to execute the import without waiting for the
system to complete the process.

Wait for File to be Imported

Select to execute the import while waiting for the
system to complete the process.
If the system times out during the process,
click the Status tab to check the results of the import.

3. Specify this information:
File Location - Specify the location of the file created during the export process. Click
Browse to locate the file.
Click View File Contents to view the contents of the file.
Notification Email Address - Specify the email address to which the system sends
email notification once the process is complete.
4. Click Import.

Viewing the status of imports
1. Select Administration > Setup > Configuration Manager > Configuration Manager –
Import.
2. Click the Status tab.
3. Select the record for which to view status details, and then click View Status Details.
4. View the status details.
5. Select the group for which to view error details, and then click View Error Details.
6. View the error details.
7. Click Close.

Screen designer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1310 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Modify the page layout of record view, detail view, and list-detail view pages. You can move
fields, modify the display type of fields, and rename field labels.

Using screen designer keyboard shortcuts
Keyboard shortcuts are keys or key combinations for system functions. The following
keyboard shortcuts allow easy access to screen designer functions while in designer mode.

Function

Shortcut

Switch to screen designer mode

ALT+E

Save layout

CTRL+S

Open group selection

CTRL+G

Switch to preview mode to view layout of
screen with hidden fields removed, and
without saving changes on the
screen/returning to normal mode

ALT+W

Exit screen designer mode

CTRL+I

Displaying pages in screen designer mode
Modify the page layout of record view, detail view, and list-detail view pages. You can move
fields, modify the display type of fields, and rename field labels.
1. Open any record view, detail view, or list-detail page.
2. Click Screen Designer.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1311 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Copy from Group - Select the group from which to copy the screen layout.
Save to Group - Select the group to which to save the screen layout.
To save the screen layout to multiple user groups, click Advanced.
4. Click Continue.

Moving fields in screen designer mode
Move fields from one container to another container or move fields within the same container.
In designer mode, a container is indicated by a red dotted line.
Only custom fields associated to a * Class and * Organization can be moved to
another block.
1. Display the selected page in designer mode.
2. Click the field to move, and then drag the field to the desired location.

• When dragging a field to the desired location, the field is always inserted below
the field onto which it was placed.
• To move a field to the first field position, you must drag the field onto the current
first field, and then move the current first field down.
3. Click Save.

Modifying field display properties
Change the display properties for fields as necessary. Five field properties are used:
Required, Protected, Optional, Hidden, and Not Available.
1. Display the selected page in designer mode.
2. Right-click the field to modify.
Note: All five of the field properties are NOT available for all fields.
3. Choose one of the following field property options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1312 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Required - Select to indicate that the field is required.
• Protected - Select to indicate that the field is read-only.
• Optional - Select to indicate that the field is not required.
• Hidden - Select to indicate that the field is not shown in detail mode but is always
displayed in list view and is still available.
• Not Available - Select to indicate that the field should not be displayed in detail or
list views.
4. Click Save.

Modifying field labels
Change the labels used for fields as necessary.
Changes to field labels apply to ALL user groups.
1. Display the selected page in designer mode.
2. Right-click the field to modify, and then select Edit Field Names.
When the state of a field is changed to Not Available, Protected, or Hidden,
any default value that was previously defined for the field is cleared.
3. Modify the current field label as necessary.
4. Click Done.

Modifying block display properties
A block of fields is indicated by a title in red and a blue line separating a group of fields from
other groups of fields. In the example below, the blocks of fields are titled Equipment Details,
Tracking Details, Part Association, Hierarchy, and Custom Fields. Hide entire blocks of fields
as necessary.
1. Display the selected page in designer mode.
2. Right-click inside the block to modify (NOT inside a red container).

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1313 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Choose one of the following block property options:
• Show Block - Select to display the entire block of fields.
• Hide Block - Select to hide the entire block of fields.
4. Click Save.

Modifying block labels
Change the labels used for blocks of fields as necessary.
Changes to block labels apply to ALL user groups.
1. Display the selected page in designer mode.
2. Right-click the block to modify.
3. Choose Edit Block Name.
4. Modify the current block label as necessary.
5. Click Done.

Modifying link and generic button display properties
Change the display properties for links and generic buttons as necessary. Generic buttons are
those that are common across many forms, such as Submit and Clear.
To modify link and generic button display properties:
1. Display the selected page in designer mode. See Displaying pages in screen designer
mode.
2. Right-click the link or button to modify.
3. Choose one of the following link or button property options:
• Enable Link/Button - Select to enable the link or button.
• Disable Link/Button - Select to disable the link or button.
• Edit Link/Button Name - Select to edit the link or button label name.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1314 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Click Save.

Modifying function button display properties
Change the display properties for function buttons as necessary. Function buttons are those
that perform a procedure or open a pop-up window, such as Create WO on the Assets
screen.
1. Display the selected page in designer mode.
2. Right-click the button to modify.
3. Choose one of the following button property options:
• Show Button - Select to display the button.
• Hide Button - Select to hide the button. If you select to hide a button, the rightclick option is still available.
• Not Available - Select to disable the button. If you select to make a button Not
Available, then both the right-click option and the button are hidden.
4. Click Save.

Modifying link and button labels
Change the labels used for links and buttons as necessary.
Changes to link and button labels apply to ALL user groups.
1. Display the selected page in designer mode.
2. Right-click the link or button to modify.
3. Choose Edit Link/Button Name.
4. Modify the current link or button label as necessary.
5. Click Done.

Displaying screens in screen designer mode in the Digital Work

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1315 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

mobile application
Modify the page layout of screens and select panels on screens in the Digital Work mobile
application. In addition to modifying the layout of a screen-panel combination, you can also
move fields around on the screens.
Changes made to screens here will not affect the corresponding base screen in the
EAM web application.
1. Open the Screen Designer for Digital Work screen.
This screen is not delivered in the default menu. Contact your system
administrator for assistance showing menu items.
2. Specify this information:
Screen - Specify the screen for which to modify the layout on the mobile application.
Panel - Optionally, specify a panel on the selected screen for which to also modify the
layout of the screen and the panel combined. Panels are available based on the screen
specified. For example, on the PO Receipts screen, Active Lines is an available panel to
modify.
If no panel is selected, the record view of the selected screen will load.
Copy from Group - Select the user group from which to copy the screen layout.
Save to Group - Select the user group to which to save the screen layout.
3. Click Load Layout to the view the available fields.
4. Optionally, select from the available fields, and then click the arrows to move the fields
up or down on the specified screen in the Digital Work mobile application.
5. Click Save Record.

Defining grids
Create a new grid or copy an existing grid and modify the grid definition. A grid can be added
to the menu as a new screen or as a tab on another form.
To define grids that all users can see, you must be logged in as the R5 user.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1316 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Grid Designer.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Grid Name - Specify the name of the grid, and then specify a description in the adjacent
field.
Names of List type grids must be six characters in length, with ‘U’ as the
second letter. Names of Tab type grids must be three characters in length and begin
with 'X'.
Copy From - Specify an existing grid to copy. Description, Grid Type, Parent Screen,
Parent Screen description, FROM Clause, WHERE Clause, and SELECT Statement
are automatically populated.
Grid Type - Choose one of the following options:
• List View
• Tab
• Alert Management
Parent Screen - Specify the parent screen for the grid if the new grid will be
added as a tab on an existing form if Grid Type is selected. The parent screen
description is automatically populated.
FROM Clause - Specify the FROM Clause for the grid, including each table and
table alias.
SELECT Statement - Specify the SELECT Statement for the grid. On the Record
View page, fields can be selected only from the lookup. To modify the fields
selected or to add fields and functions expressions individually, click the Fields
tab.
WHERE Clause - Specify the WHERE Clause for the grid, including parameters
as necessary.
Custom Field Table - Specify the custom field table used for the dataspy lookup
for the grid if custom field selection is enabled.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1317 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Active - Active is selected if the grid has been validated on the Validation page.
4. Optionally, select the Enable Custom Field Selection in Dataspy check box to enable
custom field selection in the dataspy for the grid.
5. Optionally, select the Mobile Grid check box to set the grid as a Mobile grid on the
Record View page.
6. Optionally, select the GIS WO Attribute Mapping Grid check box to allow work order
fields defined on this grid to be associated to GIS event attributes, which enables EAM
work order data to be synchronized in the GIS map display.

• This feature is only available when using LRS (Linear Referencing System)
enabled map services.
• The Map Attributes pop-up window on the HxGN EAM toolbar inside the ArcMap
application is used to associate work order UDG fields to GIS event attributes.
7. Click Save Record.

Defining fields for grids
Define fields for grids to modify the SELECT statement for the grid. Fields in the SELECT
statement can be true fields or function calls (including parameters).
1. Select Administration > Setup > Grid Designer.
2. Select the grid for which to add fields, and then click the Fields tab.
3. Click Add Field.
4. Specify this information:
Field - Specify the field to add to the grid.
Lookup Dataspies allow you to choose the following:
• fields from the tables in the FROM clause
• any fields in the whole database including any you created

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1318 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• functions
Alias - Specify the alias for the field.
Field Alias can include only letters, numbers, and '_'. The same Field
can be added twice if it appears in two different tables, but only with a different
field alias each time.
Header Location - Choose one of the following options to display a field in the
header section above the grid:
• None
• Code
• Description
• Header 1
• Header 2
• Header 3
Field Label - Specify the label for the field.
Data Type - Choose one of the following options:
• Upper Case
• Mixed Case
• Numeric
• Date
• Currency
• Decimal
• Date/Time
• Duration
• Time

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1319 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Boolean
• Long
• Dependent
Lookup Entity - Specify the entity used to populate the Dataspy lookup for the
field. The system automatically populates entity description.
Lookup Query - Specify the query used to populate the Dataspy lookup for the
field. The system automatically populates Lookup Query Text.
Grid Key - Select to identify the field as a key field for the grid.
5. Click Submit.
To create a hyperlink to a screen for this field, click Add/Edit Hyperlinks.

Defining parameters for grids
Map parameters to fields on parent screens for user-defined grids with Grid Type = Tab. This
tab shows both system parameters and user-defined parameters from SELECT and WHERE
statements.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Grid Designer.
2. Select the grid for which to define parameters, and then click the Parameters tab.
3. Select a parameter to map to the parent screen.
4. Specify this information:
Parent Grid Field - Specify the parent screen field for the parameter. For example, map
the :WONUM parameter to the WO No. field on the Work Orders form when adding a
new tab with child records to that form.
5. Click Submit.

Defining validation for grids
Define a default Dataspy for a grid, and then mark the grid as active.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1320 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Setup > Grid Designer.
2. Select the grid to validate, and then click the Validation tab.
3. Click Create Default Dataspy. The system validates the full query statement for the
grid record and creates the default Dataspy for the new grid as "All records".
4. Specify this information:
Active - Select to validate the grid definition and make the grid available for use.
If you clear the Active check box, the record is saved and the grid is made
inactive.

Defining and generating views
Use relational database views to expand the complexity and functionality of user defined grids
in EAM. Define these database views by specifying a unique view name and a SQL
statement. Generate these views to make them available for use with Grid Designer. Unlike
user defined grids in EAM, views allow you to use outer joins and unions to combine data
from two or more tables.
1. Select Administration > Screen Configuration > Views.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
View - Specify a unique code value to identify the view database record, and then
specify a description of the new record in the adjacent field.
View Name - Specify a unique name which will be used as a reference on user defined
grids. All view names must begin with U5.
SQL Statement - Specify the SQL statement query to generate the searchable object or
database view.
4. Click Save Record.
5. Click Generate to run the Test SQL process and generate the new database view. If the
view is generated successfully, the Active check box is selected, and the view is ready
for use with Grid Designer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1321 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Setting up hyperlinks
Create or edit hyperlinks to connect a form to another form. Hyperlinks allow access to related
forms or reports from a link on the original form.
1. Open an HxGN EAM form.
You may also set up hyperlinks on the Fields tab of the Grid Designer page.
2. Select a record, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Click Screen Designer.
4. Right-click in a field, and then choose Hyperlink. The system automatically populates
Source Screen Name and Source Field Name.
5. Specify this information:
Hyperlink - Specify a unique name for the hyperlink.
Destination Screen Mode - Select to set hyperlink as query pages or to set hyperlinks
to display in insert mode.
Destination Screen/Report - Specify the name of the hyperlink screen or report.

• If you select a report for Destination Screen/Report,Default Dataspy is emptied
and protected.
• Query is also selected for the Destination Screen Mode and protects the
Destination Screen Mode options.
Destination Field - Select the field for which to create a hyperlink.
Sequence Number - Specify the sequential order for the hyperlink.
Default Dataspy - Select the global dataspy for the hyperlink.
6. Click Submit.

Using screen designer for web service prompts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1322 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Modify the layout of screens and properties of web service prompt fields. In addition, you can
select the groups for which the changes apply. While tab sequence and display properties are
established initially on the Fields page for Web Service Prompts, fields can be moved around
the screen and display types can be changed using the screen designer feature.
Re-sequencing fields via screen designer may cause the prompt to function
differently than the administrator originally intended. Exercise caution when re-sequencing
fields via screen designer.
The following functionality is specific to screen designer for web service prompts:
1. If you have access to the screen designer feature on system delivered screens, you
also have access to screen designer on web service prompt screens.
2. Make screen design changes with caution as certain changes can adversely affect the
intended behavior of the screen. For example, if you move a controlling organization or
class/class organization field to the bottom of a prompt, the system may not display any
class-specific custom fields until the entire prompt has been navigated.
3. Any field-level changes on the Web Service Prompt Definition form overwrite the
corresponding field on the Prompt form for all groups when the screen is next opened,
regardless of changes made via screen designer. For example, creating and updating
prompt definitions impact the corresponding screen for all user groups.
4. Hyperlinks are not available.
5. "User Defined Field Options" and "User Defined Field Lookup Values" right-click options
are not available.
6. The "Not Available" attribute is not available.
7. The "View Field Details" option is not available.
8. When editing field names, translating to other languages is not available.
9. Lookup Filters can be applied only to user defined fields. In addition, the user defined
field must have the lookup defined on the base screen for which the web service is
related.
10. There is no web service prompt screen designer option for links and generic buttons as
these cannot be displayed on a web service prompt-based screen.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1323 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining web service prompts
Define web service prompts representing web services and fields rendered on the userdefined screen using the Web Services Prompt Engine. System administrators can use web
services to create user-defined screens for use within EAM. Web service prompts contain the
definitions for these screens.
The following rules apply to forms for which web service prompts are available:
• The functions of all system-delivered EAM List View and Record View pages are
shown.
• BSCOMM (Comments) is displayed.
• No user-created screens are available.
All screens meeting the above criteria are shown if a web service has not been specified;
otherwise, only screens related to the web service will be displayed.
1. Select Administration > Web Service Prompt Engine > Web Service Prompts.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Web Service Prompt - Specify a unique code for the web service prompt, and then
enter a description of the prompt in the adjacent field.
Out of Service - Select to indicate the web service prompt is out of service.
4. Click Save Record.
A screen record whose code and description correspond with the web service prompt
is automatically created. The user-defined screen can now be placed into the menu for one or
more user groups. These new screens are not visible on the Screens form.

Defining web services for web service prompts
Define the HxGN EAM web services available for use on the user-defined screen
representing the selected web service prompt.
1. Select Administration > Web Service Prompt Engine > Web Service Prompts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1324 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the web service prompt for which to define web services, and then click the Web
Services tab.
3. Click Add Web Service.
4. Specify this information:
Screen - Specify the screen for which to define web services details.
Tab - Specify the tab to be specified for the selected screen.

• Tab should be left blank if the web service is to be based on the Record View of
the selected Screen.
• If the Comments Tab is selected, the system replaces the selected Screen with
BSCOMM and clears the Tab value because the insert, update, and delete
Comment web services do not actually reside on the Comments tab. These web
services exist on the Comments pop-up (BSCOMM), a screen within HxGN EAM.
Because Comments are generic and can apply to many screens, the Entity and
Record for which the Comments are related need to be entered when inserting,
updating, or deleting Comments using the Web Service Prompt Engine. The
system administrator can make the Entity field ‘fixed’ via Field Type and supply
the correct Entity value so that it is not necessary to enter it with each Comment
record. In addition, the Entity field can be ‘protected’ via Display Type so that
users can only enter Comments for the appropriate Entity.
Action Code - Select the action code for the selected screen, such as insert,
update, delete.
Process Group - Specify the process group for the selected screen. Fields related
to the lowest process group will be displayed first on the Web Service Prompt
Engine, and so on. The default value for this field is based on the INCRLINO
installation parameter.
Web Service - Specify the web service for the selected screen.

• The system defaults the Web Service if only one Web Service exists for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1325 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Screen, Tab, and Action Code.
• If you enter the Web Service without entering Screen, Tab, and Action Code, the
system populates Screen, Tab, and Action Code when the Web Service is
selected.
5. Click Submit. The system automatically creates a field record on the Fields tab for
each controlling organization in the selected web service. Controlling Org. will be
selected for these records.
In determining the sequence for Controlling Org. for each process group/web
service, the system multiplies the value in the WSPFSEQ parameter by the web service
process group. This new parameter will be used as a multiplier to ensure adequate field
sequence separation between web services defined for the prompt allowing users to add the
remaining prompt fields as necessary. The default value for this parameter is 100.

Defining fields for web service prompts
Add, update, or delete fields for each web service that will be available on the Web Services
Prompt. Fields available for use will be those related to the web services defined on the Web
Services page of the Web Service Prompts form.
This form contains no capability for defining language translations for field labels
displayed. When the prompt is executed, field labels display as entered on the Fields form for
the selected web service prompt. To display prompts in multiple languages, a separate Web
Service Prompt must be created for each language.
User defined fields are available for web service prompts. The fields display in a list of all
fields under the appropriate web service for some insert/update web services. These user
defined fields inherit properties from the associated reference form. Right-click in Screen
Designer mode to define options for user defined fields. When you highlight a user defined
field in the grid, the system protects Field Type and Query Code. This information is defined
on the base screen for which the web service is related.
Entity lookup user defined fields show records for all organizations in the user's organization
list when a controlling organization is not available. A record cannot be submitted if the
controlling organization and the user defined field organization are in conflict.
1. Select Administration > Web Service Prompt Engine > Web Service Prompts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1326 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the web service prompt for which to define fields for web services, and then click
the Fields tab.
3. Click Add Field.
4. Specify this information:
Process Group–Web Service - Specify the process group for which to add the web
service field. Screen and Tab are automatically populated.
Field - Specify the field to add to the process group. Available fields are based on the
selected web service.
Field Label - Specify the name for the field. This information will be displayed as the
field boiler text for the Web Services Prompt Engine. The default Field Label is
equivalent to the Field.
Field Type - Specify the field type based on the selected field and web service. The
default Field Type is the system-delivered type for the selected Field. However, you
may change this value. The user-defined Field Type is displayed on the Web Service
Prompt Engine. You can change the default to one of the following options:
• Alphabetic
• Computed
• Date
• Fixed
• Free format text
• Key Field
• Numeric
• Retrieved Field

• Key Field is available only when an "update" or "delete" web service is selected.
When setting up a web service prompt that uses an update or delete web service,
the system administrator must create a Field for each key field the web service

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1327 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

requires to uniquely describe a record. Field Type should be Key Field. The web
service prompt engine first prompts you to enter the key field value(s) for the
record to process, such as Equipment and Equipment Organization. For
updating web services, the system queries for the record to display the results.
You may update and then submit the record. For deleting web services, after you
enter all key field values, the system deletes the record.
• Retrieved Field is available only when an "insert" web service is chosen. When
setting up a web service prompt that uses an insert web service, one or more key
field values must be retrieved from a web service previously processed in the
current prompt record. The administrator needs to create a Field of type
Retrieved Field for each of the key fields. For example, a web service prompt is
created that allows you to create a work order and an activity for the work order
simultaneously. You want the activity to be associated with the work order that is
created in a previous process group; however, the data will be entered into the
web service prompt engine and processed simultaneously. To ensure the activity
is associated with the correct work order, the system must first process the "insert"
work order web service, then pass (retrieve) the work order number and work
order organization back to the create activity web service. This key field
information, along with other required activity data, is used to create the activity
and relate it to the proper work order. Retrieved Field (Field Type = Retrieved
Field) records would be created for the activity work order number and activity
work order organization because the work order number and organization are
required to associate the activity.
• Retrieve From Group–Web Service should be populated with the web service from
which these key field values are retrieved. In this example, they are retrieved from
the "insert" work order web service. Retrieve Field will be the key field in the
retrieve from web service from which the data is retrieved. In this example, WO
Number is one of the retrieved fields. Another Field should be created similarly to
define how to retrieve the work order organization for use in creating the activity.
Field values can only be retrieved from web services with a lesser process group
number. For example, a value cannot be retrieved for use in the current web
service unless a previous web service was processed to provide the information.
• Retrieved Field and Key Field are not available when Unmapped is blank.
• Retrieved Field Type is not associated with the functionality available on the
Retrieved Values page. If a field is defined as check box, it appears as a check

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1328 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

box on the Web Service Prompt Engine page.
Display Type - Specify how the field will be displayed using the Web Service
Prompt Engine. The default value will be the system default for the selected field.
The user can change the default to one of the following options:
• Optional
• Required
• Hidden
• Protected
If Field Type is Fixed or Computed, only Protected and Hidden will be
available for Display Type. If Field Type is Retrieved Field, only Hidden will be
available for Display Type.
Sequence - Specify a numeric value for the sequence. Fields are displayed using
the Web Service Prompt Engine in ascending order by their Sequence. The
default value provided by the system is based on the INCRLIND parameter.
It is important to ensure that the web service prompt fields are displayed
grouped together, using the Web Service Prompt Engine, by Process Group–
Web Service. The Sequence range available is controlled for fields for the
selected Process Group–Web Service. The Sequence must not overlap with a
Sequence associated with a previous or subsequent process group. For example,
web service prompt fields are grouped on the Web Service Prompt Engine by
Process Group–Web Service, then by Sequence.
Minimum Length - Specify the minimum number of characters for the field.
Maximum Length - Specify the maximum number of characters for the field.
Next Sequence - Specify the number at which to begin the next sequence.
Query Code - Specify the query code. The Query Code defines values available
for selection in a list of values field when a server connection is available. For
example, the query and list of available values will be based on the HxGN EAM
tables.
Mobile Query Code - Specify the mobile query code that defines a list of values

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1329 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

that is available for the field.
The mobile device uses the Query Code list of values if an application
server connection exists; otherwise, the Mobile Query Code list of values is used.
For example, local data populates the list of values.
Retrieve Field - Specify the name of the field from which to retrieve data. The
system automatically populates Retrieve From Group–Web Service and
Retrieve Field X-Path.
Query Web Service - Specify the query web service. A Query Web Service
applies only when defining key field for an "update" web service. The Query Web
Service is used to query the data in the record to display to the user for possible
updates.
Unmapped Field - Select if specified field is not mapped to any field in web
service. The field value can then be processed further by the Prompt as part of a
calculation or retrieved values.
Use Previous Value - Select to use the previous field value.
If Data Is - Specify the Go To condition. This field describes the condition in which
the system does not access the field defined by Next Sequence but instead
places focus on the Go To Sequence.
Pattern - Specify the pattern that should be met for the Go To condition.
Go To - Specify the field sequence that the system will follow, versus Next
Sequence, if the condition is met.
Clear Previous Values Starting From Go To Target Field - Select to enable the
system to carry forward values for fields with Use Previous Value selected, when
the prompt sequence is less than (<) the "Go To" target field sequence. For
example, previous values for prompt fields >= "Go To" target field sequence will be
cleared. Otherwise, the system will carry forward values for fields with Use
Previous Value selected, when the prompt sequence is less than (<) the "Go To"
source field sequence. For example, previous values for prompt fields <= "Go To"
source field sequence will be cleared.
Retrieve From Group–Web Service - Specify the web service from which key
field values will be returned and used in a subsequent process group.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1330 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Computed Data - Specify the computed data for the field when Field Type is
Computed.
Pattern Match - Specify a pattern for Field Type of Alphabetic for which entered
data must match in order to be valid.
The following "wild card" characters are supported when defining a
Pattern Match:
• . (period): single alphabetical characters, A through Z
• # (pound sign): any single number, 0 through 9
• _ (underscore): any single alphanumeric character, A through Z and 0 through 9
• % (percent): a string of alphanumeric characters
• , (comma): OR condition
• : (colon): THROUGHOUT condition
• ! Any character(s) or numbers(s): data entered should not match what follows the
"!" NOT condition.
See Defining retrieved values for web service prompts.
5. Click Submit.

• To remove a field, select the field to remove, and then click Remove Field. Fields
corresponding to the Controlling Organization for a web service cannot be removed
from this page because they are critical to processing the web service. However, if the
web service itself is removed from the Web Service page, all related fields are
automatically removed including Controlling Organization.
• Errors are not displayed on this page if all necessary required, key, or retrieved fields
are not defined for the web service prompt to function properly using the Web Service
Prompt Engine. An error is displayed when the Web Service Prompt Engine processes
records with insufficient prompt fields. An error is also displayed from the Web Service
Prompt Engine if a next sequence is defined that does not exist within the prompt
definition.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1331 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining retrieved values for web service prompts
Create, edit, and delete retrieved values for a web service prompt. Values can be retrieved
from the database and automatically populated into the Destination field when you enter data
into the Source field. Using retrieved values saves data entry time and prevents potential key
stroke mistakes.
A good example for using retrieved values would be when an employee regularly creates a
work order and activity for which they will complete. When the employee enters his or her
user name for the work order Created By field, the system can locate the employee
associated with the entered user name and populate that employee’s Trade on the activity
automatically.
Setting up retrieved values requires identifying the Source, the Destination, and the
SQL Statement used to query the information related to the supplied data. SQL statements
can be defined on the Queries screen.
1. Select Administration > Web Service Prompt Engine > Web Service Prompts.
2. Select the web service prompt for which to define retrieved values, and then click the
Retrieved Values tab.
3. Click Add Retrieved Value.
4. Specify this information:
Source - Specify the source field sequence.
Destination - Specify the field sequence for which to populate the retrieved data.
Query Code - Specify the query code on which the retrieved value will be based. SQL
Statement is automatically populated.
Referencing other prompt fields inside the user-defined SQL statement is
allowed. The syntax is ":<prompt sequence #>. For example, if you want to reference a
prompt field whose Sequence = "2" inside the ‘where’ clause of their SQL statement,
enter ":2".
5. Click Submit.

Copying web service prompts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1332 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The copy web service prompt feature copies a web service prompt, including all details.
To copy web service prompts:
1. Create a web service prompt. See Defining web service prompts.
2. Right-click, and then select Copy Web Service Prompt.
3. Specify this information:
New Web Service Prompt - Enter the name for the new web service prompt. The
system automatically populates the New Web Service Prompt description.
4. Select the record types to copy, and then click Submit.

• Some exceptions apply to the header details copied.
• Out of Service value is not copied.
• If the detail record contains a Query Code or Mobile Query Code that is not valid at
the time the record is copied, the system does not copy the record.

Viewing log files
View and save EAM log and configuration files. Saved files are copied to a specified location
on the local drive.
1. Select Administration > Setup > View Log Files.
2. Specify this information:
File Type - Choose one of the following options:
• All
• Log
• Configuration
Log Type - Choose one of the following options:
• Ejcron

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1333 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Session
• Session List
• Server
• Grid Query
• Apache
• Report
• Axis
3. Click Display Files.
4. Select the files to save.
If multiple files are selected, the files are automatically compressed and saved
as one file.
5. Click Save.
6. Select the folder in which to save the file, and then click Save.

Basic module data creation
Setting up basic module data is a simplified initial setup process. These options can also be
defined as installation parameters.
For more detailed information regarding installation parameters and initial setup, see System
configuration.

Defining administration setup
Define administration setup options to format the module to your specifications.
1. Select Administration > Administration Setup.
2. Specify this information:
Line Number Increment (INCRLINO) - Specify the value by which to increase the line
number when automatic line numbering is activated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1334 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Minimum Password Length (PASSMINL) - Specify the minimum number of characters
allowed for a system password.
Password Duration Days (SECUPWEP) - Specify the number of days in the password
expiration period.
Reuse Password Days (SECUPWRP) - Specify the number of days before a user can
reuse an expired password.
HxGN EAM CD Key (CDKEY) - Specify the HxGN EAM CD Key.
HxGN EAM Consumer Reports CD Key (CDKEY) - Specify the HxGN EAM Consumer
Reports CD key.
HxGN EAM Report Author CD Key - Specify the HxGN EAM Report Author CD key.
HxGN EAM Requestor CD Key (CDKEY) - Specify the HxGN EAM Requestor CD key.
HxGN EAM Barcoding CD Key (7IBCDKEY) - Specify the HxGN EAM Barcoding CD
key.
User Lock Attempts (SECUVIOL) - Specify the number of consecutive password
violations that can occur before a user is locked out of the system. The system
administrator must unlock the user.
Mixed Case Passwords (PASSUPER) - Select Yes or No to indicate whether the
system allows mixed case for password verification. If No, the system does not use
mixed case in password verification. If Yes, the system uses mixed case in password
verification.
Tab Save Behavior (TABSAVE) - Select Insert to return to Insert Mode after modifying
a record on List/Detail tabs. Select Update to stay in Update Mode after modifying a
record.
Database Name (DBNAME) - Specify your database name, such as "Production,"
"Development," or "Test."
Company Name (OURCOMP) - Specify the name that appears on reports.
Application Server URL (APPURL) - Specify the URL path for the application server.
E-mail Sender (SMTPSEND) - Specify the name of the e-mail sender used by HxGN

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1335 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EAM.
E-mail Server (SMTPSERV) - Specify the name or IP address of the SMTP e-mail
server.
Conversion Database Tablespace - Specify a separate data tablespace for all
conversion data.
Conversion Index Tablespace - Specify a separate index tablespace for all conversion
data.
Web User Authentication Method - Select the method for authenticating a HxGN EAM
web user. Select Standard to use the credential defined on the user's records in HxGN
EAM. Select LDAP to use the credential defined in the LDAP provider configured for
HxGN EAM deployment. Select External to use an external authentication service
configured for HxGN EAM deployment.
Web Service Authentication Method - Select the method for authenticating a HxGN
EAM Connector web service user. Select Standard to use the credentials defined on
the user's records in HxGN EAM. Select LDAP to use the credential defined in the
LDAP provider configured for HxGN EAM deployment. Select External to use an
external authentication service configured for HxGN EAM deployment.
Mobile User Authentication Method - Select the method for authenticating a HxGN
EAM Mobile user. Select Standard to use the credentials defined on the user's records
in HxGN EAM. Select LDAP to use the credential defined in the LDAP provider
configured for HxGN EAM deployment. Select External to use an external
authentication service configured for HxGN EAM deployment.
Databridge Authentication Method - Select the method for authenticating a HxGN
EAM Databridge user. Select Standard to use the credentials defined on the user's
records in HxGN EAM. Select LDAP to use the credential defined in the LDAP provider
configured for HxGN EAM deployment. Select External to use an external
authentication service configured for HxGN EAM deployment.
Enable/Disable KPI Driver - Click to enable or disable KPI driver.
Enable/Disable E-mail Driver - Click to enable or disable e-mail driver.
3. Click Save Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1336 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining equipment setup
Define equipment setup options to format the module to your specifications.
1. Select Administration > Equipment Setup.
2. Specify this information:
Auto-number Assets (AUTOANUM) - Select Yes or No to indicate whether the asset
numbers are automatically generated.
3. Click Save Record.

Defining equipment statuses for equipment setup
Define statuses for equipment. Equipment status indicates the state of the equipment listed.
1. Select Administration > Equipment Setup.
2. Click the Equipment Statuses tab.
3. Click Add Status.
4. Specify this information:
Status - Specify a user code for the equipment status, and then specify a description in
the adjacent field.
System Status - Specify the system status.
System Default - Select to set the system default to the current code.
5. Click Submit.

Defining equipment types for equipment setup
Define types for equipment. Equipment types indicate the use of the equipment listed.
1. Select Administration > Equipment Setup.
2. Click the Equipment Types tab.
3. Click Add Type.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1337 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. Specify this information:
Type - Specify a user code for the equipment type, and then specify a description in the
adjacent field.
System Type - Specify a code for the system type.
• A (Assets)
• C (Category)
• L (Location)
• S (System)
System Default - Select to set the system default to the current code.
5. Click Submit.

Defining equipment criticality for equipment setup
1. Select Administration > Equipment Setup.
2. Click the Equipment Criticality tab.
3. Click Add Code.
4. Specify this information:
Code - Specify a user code for the equipment criticality, and then specify a description
in the adjacent field.
System Default - Select to set the system default to the current code.
5. Click Submit.

Defining purchasing setup
Define purchasing setup options to format the module to your specifications.
1. Select Administration > Purchasing Setup.
2. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1338 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Allow Over Receipt (OVERRECV) - Choose one of the following options to indicate
whether the system allows for items to be purchased over the receipt limit:
• If Yes, allow to receive more than ordered.
• If No, do not allow to receive more than ordered.
Auto-populate Quantity to Receive (RECVAUTO) - Select Yes or No to indicate
whether the quantity to receive on the PO Receipt form is automatically populated.
Default PO Receipt Description (DOCKDESC) - Specify the default PO receipt
description.
Default Purchase Order Description (PORDDESC) - Specify the default
purchase order description. Changing the value does not affect existing data.
Default Requisition Description (REQDESC) - Specify the default requisition
description.
3. Click Save Record.

Defining expense types for purchasing setup
Define expense types for purchasing. Expense types indicate the use of the expense listed.
1. Select Administration > Purchasing Setup.
2. Click the Expense Types tab.
3. Click Add Type.
4. Specify this information:
Type - Specify a user code for the expense type, and then specify a description in the
adjacent field.
System Default - Select to set the system default to the current code.
5. Click Submit.

Defining requisition statuses for purchasing setup

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1339 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define statuses for requisitions. These statuses indicate the state of the requisitions.
1. Select Administration > Purchasing Setup.
2. Click the Requisition Statuses tab.
3. Click Add Status.
4. Specify this information:
Status - Specify a code for the requisition status, and then specify a description in the
adjacent field.
System Type - Specify one of the following system types:
• A (Approved)
• C (Cancelled)
• R (Awaiting Approval)
• U (Unfinished)
System Default - Select to set the system default to the current code.
5. Click Submit.

Defining purchase order and transaction statuses for purchasing
setup
Define statuses for purchase orders and transactions. These statuses indicate the state of the
purchase orders and transactions.
1. Open the Purchasing Setup form.
2. Click the PO and Transaction Statuses tab.
3. Click Add Status.
4. Specify this information:
Status - Specify a user code for the purchase order and transaction status, and then
specify a description in the adjacent field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1340 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

System Type - Specify one of the following system types:
• A (Approved)
• C (Cancelled)
• R (Awaiting Approval)
• U (Unfinished)
System Default - elect to set the system default to the current code.
5. Click Submit.

Defining materials setup
Define materials setup options to format the module to your specifications. These options
were formerly defined as installation parameters.
1. Select Administration > Materials Setup.
2. Specify this information:
Automatically Associate Parts (AUTOPART) - Select Yes or No to indicate whether
the Parts Associated list for equipment is automatically updated.

• Update the Parts Associated list for approved lines on a receipt. If AUTOPART is
set to AUTO, a scan is made to verifu whether the received part is associated with
an equipment’s Parts Associated list when a purchase order receipt is approved
for a work order. If the received part is not associated with the equipment’s Parts
Associated list, the part is added to the list using the quantity of the transaction as
the Parts Associated quantity.
• If the part is already associated on the Parts Associated list, the quantity of the
part is updated on the Parts Associated list to the transaction quantity if the
transaction quantity is greater than the existing quantity on the Parts Associated
list. If the transaction quantity is not greater, no updates are made. This
association applies to issues, not just receipts.
Auto-number Parts (AUTOPNUM) - Select Yes or No to indicate whether the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1341 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

part numbers are automatically generated.
Default Transaction Description (TRANSDESC) - Specify the default transaction
description.
3. Click Save Record.

Defining work setup
Define work setup options to format the module to your specifications. To define work setup:
1. Select Administration > Work Setup.
2. Specify this information:
Book Days (COMDAYS) - Enter the number of days during which you can book hours
on closed work orders. Infor recommends a minimum value of 1. Changing the value
does not affect existing data.
Issue Days (ISSDAYS) - Enter the number of days for which issues can be made after
you close a work order. Valid values are any non-negative numbers. Changing the value
does not affect existing data.
Return Days (RTNDAYS) - Enter the number of days that parts can be returned to the
store after the work order has been closed. Valid values are any non-negative numbers.
Changing the value does not affect existing data.
Tool Days (TOOLDAYS) - Enter the number of days to update tool usage costs after
completion of a work order.
Non-Work Order Days (NPRDAYS) - Enter the number of days for which you can book
past nonproductive hours, which is labor performed without a work order. Changing the
value does not affect existing data.
Cascade Work Order Status (EVTCASCD) - Select Yes or No to indicate whether
changing a parent work order’s status to Closed or Cancelled causes the status of child
work orders also to change.
Enforce Work Order Dates (BOOKDATE) - Select Yes or No to indicate whether to
enforce date constraints when booking hours. If set to No, the system ignores the
constraints. If set to Yes, the system enforces the constraints.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1342 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Setting this parameter OFF may result in inconsistencies within your booked
hours data.
3. Click Save Record.

Defining work order priorities for work setup
Define work order priorities. These priorities indicate the order in which work orders should be
completed.
1. Select Administration > Work Setup.
2. Click the Work Order Priorities tab.
3. Click Add Code.
4. Specify this information:
Code - Specify a user code for the work order priority, and then specify a description in
the adjacent field.
System Default - Select to set the system default to the current code.
5. Click Submit.

Defining work order statuses for work setup
Define work order statuses. These statuses indicate the state of existing work orders.
1. Select Administration > Work Setup.
2. Click the Work Order Statuses tab.
3. Click Add Status.
4. Specify this information:
Status - Specify a user code for the work order status, and then specify a description in
the adjacent field.
• A (Approved)

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1343 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• C (Cancelled)
• R (Awaiting Approval)
• U (Unfinished)
System Status - Specify a code for the system status.
System Default - Select to set the system default to the current code.
5. Click Submit.

Defining work order types for work setup
Define work order types. These types indicate the condition of existing work orders.
1. Select Administration > Work Setup.
2. Click the Work Order Types tab.
3. Click Add Type.
4. Specify this information:
Type - Specify a user code for the work order type, and then specify a description in the
adjacent field.
System Type - Specify a code for the system type.
• A (Assets)
• C (Category)
• L (Location)
• S (System)
System Default - Select to set the system default to the current code.
5. Click Submit.

Data collection

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1344 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The data collection module enables you to track the movement of goods for asset and
maintenance management. Define queries using existing HxGN EAM data or SQL
statements. Use transaction prompts to define where and in what order the data collection
module populates information in the system. View scanner transactions to be processed and
set up predefined jobs. Finally, correct transaction errors.
This section describes HxGN EAM functions that only a system administrator has
rights to perform.
The data collection module speeds the system acquisition of business information by offering
shortcuts in the form of scanned input, minimized operator activity, and system-generated
prompts to guide users to accomplish a system function quickly. The data collection module
reports on the movements and activities of the organization’s equipment, including recording
locations and modifications to equipment, thus serving as an audit trail for an asset’s lifecycle.
The data collection module can be a valuable tool for businesses seeking to take charge of
their serialized assets and to enhance their financial reporting on difficult-to-manage item
movements.

Defining queries
Define queries using existing HxGN EAM data or SQL statements. Use SQL statements to
define complex validation queries or validation queries to multiple system tables.
Define this type of validation only if you are familiar with the HxGN EAM data model
and have a good working knowledge of SQL.
1. Select Administration > Start Center Setup > Queries.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Query - Specify the code for which to define a query.
SQL Statement - Specify the SQL statement.
To verify the SQL Statement, click Test SQL. A message indicating the
accuracy of the statement is displayed.
Normal - Select if you want this query to appear in the Normal lookups.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1345 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Data Collection - Select if you want this query to appear in the data collection lookups
for asset tracking.
Lookup - Select if you want this query to appear in all lookups.
KPI - Select if you want this query to appear in the KPI lookups.
Inbox - Select if you want this query to appear in the Inbox lookups.
Chart - Select if you want this query to appear in the Chart lookups.
Equipment Ranking - Select if you want this query to appear in the Equipment Ranking
lookups.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining transaction prompts
Transaction prompts define where and in what order the data collection module populates
information in the system. You can validate incoming data at the field level, as well as at
conditional navigation between prompts.
Referring to the data collection diagram, determine what data to enter, in what sequence it
should be gathered, and how to group data for processing to Application Programming
Interfaces (APIs). Define data prompts for each barcode transaction type.
If you use GIS functionality, you will need to load GIS assets into the system at the system
initialization. Ensure that the GISOBJID is manually assigned for each asset you need to
integrate during the system initialization. These manually assigned GISOBJIDs must have
values in a range of 0 to 100,000,000. The GISOBJID Sequence Generator begins
automatically numbering equipment records that are created through HxGN EAM or the GIS
system with 100,000,001.

• You cannot load a GIS asset into the system with a GISOBJID greater than
100,000,000.
• For equipment audits, create scanner prompts with the Interface Type A (Equipment
Audits) and L (Equipment Audit Lines).
1. Select Administration > Data Collection > Monitor Interface.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1346 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Open the Transaction Type form.
3. Click New Record. Forms SQL Code is automatically populated.
4. Specify this information:
Computed - Select for the system to automatically make a calculation.
Transaction Type - Specify the transaction type for which to define prompts. The
transaction type description is automatically populated.
Line - Specify a unique code identifying the prompt/processing definition line within the
scanning transaction.
Data Type - Select one of the following options:
• Alphabetic - Select for alphabetic characters.
• Computed - Select for the system to automatically make a calculation.
• Date - Select for the system to prompt for data that has a time component.
• Fixed - Select to define a fixed value.
• Numeric - Select for numeric characters.
Prompt Description - Specify the prompt as it is to appear on the scanning
device.
Choose one of the following options:
Fixed for Data Type - Specify, for Fixed Data, the fixed data value for this prompt.
For example, if equipment type will always be Asset, enter A.
• If you selected Computed for Data Type - Specify, for Computed Data, the SQL
command string used for the calculation. Use TKD_PROMPTDATA1,
TKD_PTOMPTDATA2, etc., to see the relevant column on the tracking transaction
table.
• If you selected Alphabetic for Data Type - Specify, for Pattern Match, a pattern
match. See Step #8 for more information about Pattern Match.
• If you selected Date for Data Type - Specify, for Date Format Mask, a date

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1347 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

format mask. The date format mask should match the data that is being entered in
the data collection upload columns.
Pattern Match - Specify the pattern matching to be performed by the scanner.
Pattern characters can include the following values:
• . (period) - Represents a single alphabetical character, A through Z
• # (pound sign) - Represents any single number, 0 through 9
• _ (underscore) - Represents any single alphanumeric character, A through Z and 0
through 9
• % (percent) - Represents a string of alphanumeric characters
• , (comma) - Represents an OR condition
• : (colon) - Represents a THROUGH condition
• Any character(s) or number(s) - Indicates that exact character or number in that
position
• ! any character(s) or number(s) - Indicates data entered should not match what
follows the "!"
Archive Column - Specify the column where the system archives transaction
data.
Interface Type
• A (Equipment audits) - Indicates the equipment audit starting point and
designates a batch number
• ADI (Add Details Interface) - Adds comments to a record
• E (Events (work order) interface) - Creates and updates work orders and
activities
• H (Booked hrs interface) - Books labor hours on a work order activity
• I (Inventory issues) - Tracks inventory transactions of assets or parts, such as
issues, returns, store-to-store movements, etc.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1348 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• IRI (Inspection results interface) - Tracks inspection results
• L (Equipment audit lines) - Indicates the equipment audit data
• MANF (Manufacturers interface) - Tracks manufacturer information
• O (Equipments interface) - Tracks assets, hierarchies, and user attributes
• PART (Parts interface) - Creates and updates part information
• PURC (Purchase order interface) - Downloads, creates, and updates purchase
orders
• R (P.O. Receipt) - Receives assets and parts with or without a purchase order
• READ (Readings interface) - Records meter readings
• REQ (Requisition interface) - Creates and updates requisitions for Goods
requested transactions
• S (Stocktake interface) - Enters physical inventory counts
• TOUS (Tool usage interface) - Tracks tool usage information
Group Sequence - Specify the sequence in which to group data collection
transactions.
Upload Column - Specify the interface column in which to load the data.
Action Code - Specify the action that the selected interface performs on this data.
Prompt Sequence - Specify the chronological order in which this prompt occurs.
Do not skip sequence numbers.
Minimum Length - Specify the minimum number of characters required for the
data to enter at the prompt. Enter nothing or 0 to make this prompt optional.
Next Prompt - Specify the next prompt to display on the barcode scanner. The
maximum number of digits is eight.
Maximum Length - Specify the maximum number of characters required for the
data to enter at the prompt.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1349 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Dup. Previous Value - Select to duplicate the previous value of the prompt.
If Data Is - Specify branch conditions, as necessary. Branch conditions include the
following values:
• != represents not equal
• < represents less than
• <= represents less than or equal to
• • = represents equal to
• > represents greater than
• >= represents greater than or equal to
Infor suggests that you prompt the user once and then use a calculated
field for each subsequent time.
Pattern - Specify the pattern of the data collected. You can enter only one pattern.
Go To - Specify the prompt to display if the result of If Data Is and Pattern is true.
This field is used by Oracle Forms.
Query Code - Specify the query code that defines a lookup for this prompt.
LOV Entity - Specify the entity of the lookup.
Validate File - Specify the file name of an ASCII text file against which to validate
entries. The file name must be in DOS format. For example, you can enter a file
containing a list of authorized employee codes. When you enter an employee
code, the reader accesses the file and validates the scanned code against the
employee list.
Lookup Attached - Select to make the lookup defined by SQL Code available. If
you do not select this field, data is still validated against SQL Code, but the lookup
is not available.
Not Available - Select to ensure data entered is not in the lookups.
Override - Select to allow users to enter non-valid data if Not Available is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1350 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

unselected or to specify valid data if Not Available is selected.
Print Barcode Label - Select to print a barcode label.
This field is used by HxGN EAM Mobile.
5. Click Save Record.
Click Validate to validate the transaction prompt.

Defining return transaction prompts
Define return prompts to create default values for specific prompts. For example, if creating
an inter-warehouse transfer issue with a prompt for requisition number, requisition line, and
outstanding quantity, set up a trigger to search and automatically populate outstanding
quantity with a value. Define triggers using SQL statements.
1. Select Administration > Data Collection > Monitor Interface.
2. Open the Transaction Type form.
3. Select the transaction type for which to define return prompts, and then click the Return
Prompts tab.
4. Click Add Return Prompt.
5. Specify this information:
Source Prompt - Enter the number corresponding to the prompt sequence number that
triggers the return prompt when you leave or tab out of the field.
Target Prompt - Enter the number corresponding to the target prompt sequence
number that receives the default value.
Target Prompt must be greater than Source Prompt.
Query Code - Enter the code identifying the SQL statement that calculates the default
value for the target prompt. The system automatically populates SQL Statement.
6. Click Submit.

Entering data with the prompt machine

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1351 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Enter data into the data collection module with the Prompt Machine form instead of a
barcode scanner, as necessary. Submit one or more transactions of a selected transaction
type.
You must tab through the prompt data fields. You cannot navigate through the form
by performing a left-mouse click on a specific field. The only field available for navigation in
this manner (by performing a left-mouse click) is Transaction Type.
1. Select Administration > Data Collection > Prompt Machine.
2. Specify this information:
Transaction Type - Specify the transaction type for which to enter data.
3. Click Add Transaction.
4. Enter data for the prompt data fields as necessary.
5. Click Add to List.
6. Click Process Transactions.
If you tab from the current Prompt Data to a lower-numbered Prompt Data, the
record is automatically added to the Transactions list, completing the current transaction and
beginning a new transaction.

Viewing scanner transactions to be processed
View scanner transactions to be processed. The number of records available to view
constantly changes as new records are processed through the system interface.
View and correct any errors on the Error Correction page.
1. Select Administration > Data Collection > Monitor Interface.
2. View the transaction information.

Setting up jobs
Set up predefined jobs. View and modify jobs. Disable jobs to stop their next scheduled
executions or restart previously stopped jobs.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1352 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The JobCacheRefreshInterval tag in MPConfiguration.xml controls how often the job
information is monitored for changes. By default, the JobCacheRefreshInterval tag checks the
jobs every 15 minutes.
1. Select Administration > Data Collection > Job Setup.
2. Select the job to set up.
3. Specify this information:
Active - Select to enable the job to start at the Next Run date and time.
If you clear the Active check box, the next execution of the job is disabled.
4. View the schedule pattern using Month, Day of Month, Day of Week, Hour, and
Minute. The schedule patterns are typically numeric, but can also include the following
characters:

Symbol

Description

* (asterisk)

Matches all days, months, hours, and minutes, e.g,
an asterisk in Day of Week indicates that the
system performs the job every day of the week.

(comma)

Separates lists of days, months, hours, and
minutes, e.g, 31, 12, 0, 0 represents 12:00 A.M. on
December 31.

(hyphen)

Specifies a range, e.g, 10-12 equals hours 10, 11,
and 12.

/(backslash)

Specifies increments, e.g, 0/15 minutes equals
minutes 0, 15, 30, and 45.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1353 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

L

Indicates the last, e.g, Day of Month=L equals the
last day of the month.

See the table below for an example of a schedule pattern:

Month

Day of Month

Day of Week

Hour

Minute

Description

*

*

*

0

5

Run 5 minutes
past midnight,
every day.

*

*

1-5

22

0

Run at 10:00
P.M. on each
weekday.

*

*

*

0-23/1 0

Run each hour,
every day.

3-12/3

L

*

1

Run at 1:00 A.M.
on the last day
of each calendar
quarter.

0

5. Click Submit.

Correcting scanner transaction errors
Correct transaction errors by correcting data prompt values, and then submit the changes to
the system database. Save the updated record to resubmit it to the interface for reprocessing.
The correct record is automatically reprocessed when saved.
If a transaction error does not exist for an interface transaction, the system protects
all fields.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1354 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Data Collection > Monitor Interface.
2. Select the record for which to correct transaction errors, and then click the Error
Correction tab.
3. Specify corrections to the data prompt values to correct the transaction error.
4. Click Save Record.

Setting the data warehouse installation parameters
Set the data warehouse installation parameters to specify which data marts will be populated
by the ETL driver. The installation parameters work in conjunction with the data warehouse
run parameters to establish the date range by which the ETL process extracts data from the
system and then populates the specified data marts within the data warehouse with the
extracted data.
Specifically, the data warehouse installation parameters indicate the system modules for
which the ETL process is going to load the data. The data warehouse run parameters
establish the date range of a load type (full or incremental) for loading and purging data from
the data warehouse.
See the following table for a list of the data warehouse installation parameters:

Installation Parameter

Description

ETL Module

Table Values

DWLABOR

Booked Labor
hours and
Available Labor

LABOR

Trades, occupation
types, personnel,
and work orders

DWMATL

Daily Material
transactions

MATL

Daily material
transactions,
stores, suppliers,
work orders

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1355 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

DWPARTS

Parts and Stores PARTS
daily values

Parts, purchase
orders, suppliers,
classes, and stores
for the SDS and
PDS

DWORDERS

Purchase orders
and order lines

ORDERS

Purchase orders,
order line types,
stores, suppliers,
and part classes on
orders

DWSTATUS

Daily Status
changes

STATUS

Entities and status
changes

DWWARNTY

Warranty claims
accumulating
values

WARRANTY

Equipment,
suppliers, and
warranty claims

DWWORK

Work orders
WORK
accumulating and
daily values

Equipment, service
requests, work
orders, budgets,
and work order
costs

Each of the previous parameters indicates a specific data mart. For example, the DWLABOR
parameter represents the LABOR ETL module (data mart) for which the ETL extracts data for
trades, occupation types, personnel, and work orders.
Specify the appropriate setting for each of the parameters/data marts as necessary. You can
also change the setting of the data warehouse parameters to temporarily enable or disable
the loading of data into any of the data marts.
1. Select Administration > Security > Install Parameters.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1356 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Filter the list of installation parameter records to display only the data
warehouse installation parameters using the Quick Filter.
2. Select the data warehouse parameter for which to enter a setting, and then click the
Record View tab.
3. Specify one of the following settings for the data mart Value:

Option

Description

ON

Specify to indicate that the data mart is activated and
will be populated by the ETL process based on the
date entered for Load from Date on the Data
Warehouse Run Parameters form.
The default Value setting for each parameter
is ON.

OFF

Specify to indicate that the data mart is not active and
will not be populated by the ETL process.
If you set the data mart to OFF, any data that
is currently in the selected data mart at the time you
set the parameter to OFF will remain in the data mart.

TRUNCATE

Specify to indicate that the ETL process will truncate
the respective date mart tables, and the data mart will
not be populated in the future (which is the same as
setting the parameter to OFF) based on the date
entered for Load from Date on the Data Warehouse
Run Parameters form.

• If you change the setting of a data warehouse parameter from TRUNCATE to
OFF, the change will have no effect on the data mart, because both the OFF and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1357 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the TRUNCATE settings prevent the ETL process from loading data into the data
mart. Changing the setting from TRUNCATE to ON will activate the load process
for the data mart, and data will be loaded into the data mart by the ETL.
• The DWTL driver must be enabled on the Job Setup form for any data mart to be
populated by the ETL when you set any data warehouse installation parameter to
ON.
• However, if you set any of the parameters to OFF or TRUNCATE, the parameter
setting will function as designed regardless of the setting of the DWTL driver.
4. Click Save Record.

Setting the data warehouse run parameters
Set the data warehouse run parameters to initialize the data warehouse run control table and
establish the appropriate run parameter settings for executing the data warehouse ETL
process at regularly scheduled intervals. You can also modify run parameters as necessary
and execute an ETL process manually. Set parameters to initiate a full or partial (incremental)
data load and/or purge data.
When running the ETL process for the first time, you must run a full load with no errors. After
running a clean full load, you do not need to run a full load again, because the data
warehouse retains all of the data from the full load. Subsequent future loads can be run
automatically based on your data warehouse setup, e.g., on a nightly basis. Future loads will
be incremental and will only add to the existing data by loading the data since the last load.
Therefore, after completing a full load, the system automatically resets the Load from Date to
the current date (date of the most recent load) and the Load Type to Incremental so that you
do not have to reset those parameters for future data loads.
Although an incremental load only loads data since the most recent load, an
incremental load also verifies time stamps for records so that it will load any changes that
have been made to an existing historical record or for transaction data that may be postdated, etc.
Although it is not necessary, you can run a full load if desired. If you select Purge Old Data,
running a full load purges all existing data in the data warehouse before loading any data;
therefore, you can run a full load to purge the existing data from the data warehouse and then
reload all of the data based on a new Load from Date, etc.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1358 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The data warehouse does not maintain historical values for parts and stores. Instead,
the data warehouse takes daily snapshots of the value of materials and inventory in each
snapshot. Therefore, purging the existing data from the data warehouse will also purge nonhistorical value information. See Understanding historical inventory valuation for the data
warehouse.
After running a full ETL load, you must check the data warehouse run log for any errors. See
Viewing data warehouse run log errors.
You must run a full load without any errors prior to switching to an incremental load. If any
errors occur during the full load, you must correct the errors and run a full load until no errors
occur.

Setting the parameters for running the data warehouse load
procedure
Set the parameters for running the data warehouse load procedure to indicate whether to
initiate a full or partial data load, and to specify the date from which to load data. The system
always runs a full load first and then sets the data load to the incremental setting. Save the
settings for future use as necessary.

• Executing a data warehouse data load is an intensive database process, and Infor
strongly recommends that you only initiate a data load during non-peak system usage
hours.
• The AETL process periodically updates HxGN EAM Analytics data. If you are installing
HxGN EAM Analytics for the first time, you should complete a full load of the data
warehouse ETL. If you are upgrading HxGN EAM Analytics from a previous version, you
should only perform incremental loads of the data warehouse ETL. Performing a full
load after an upgrade will result in the loss of data.
1. Select Administration > Data Collection > Data Warehouse Run Parameters.
2. Select the Execute Load Procedure check box to enable the data warehouse ETL job
to execute the data load process to transfer production data into the data warehouse
tables.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1359 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Load Type - Select one of the following options:

Option

Description

Full

Select to execute a full data load.

Incremental

Select to execute an incremental data load.

4. Specify the Load from Date.

• You should only select Full as the Load Type when running the ETL process for
the first time or after removing errors. After running a clean full load, you do not
need to run a full load again unless you want to delete the existing data from the
data warehouse.
• The Load from Date should generally be set from the beginning of the calendar or
fiscal year two or more years in the past. When selecting the date, consider that
each year added to the data warehouse results in the use of additional database
space. Only include years for which the data is useful for analysis.
• You can select Purge Old Data and set Purge to Date to the date through which
records should be purged. The next time the ETL runs, it will first purge records
with dates on or before Purge to Date. The ETL will then clear the Purge Old Data
check box, and continue with the load process. Infor strongly recommends that
you select Purge Old Data if you are going to run a full data load.
• After running a full load with no errors, all future loads should be incremental. After
completing a full load, the system automatically resets the Load from Date to the
current date (date of the most recent load) and sets the Load Type to
Incremental.
5. Click Save Record.

• Saving the run parameter settings applies the run parameter settings to the regularly

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1360 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

scheduled ETL process and will be in effect when the system executes the process as
scheduled.
• You can set the run parameters to execute both a data load and data purge process
simultaneously. To execute a data load and data purge simultaneously, select both
Execute Load Procedure and Purge Old Data, and then enter a Load Type, Load
from Date, and a Purge to Date.
• The default setting indicating the threshold for committing records to the data
warehouse tables is 1500 records. If you would like to specify a different threshold, a
database administrator must reset this value in the database. Contact your database
administrator for additional information.
• Each step of the load process is recorded in the data warehouse run log. See Viewing
the data warehouse run log.

Setting the parameters for running the data warehouse purge
procedure
Set the parameters for running the data warehouse purge procedure to specify to purge old
data and indicate the date from which to purge the data.
1. Select Administration > Data Collection > Data Warehouse Run Parameters.
2. Select the Purge Old Data check box to execute a data purge process.
3. Specify the Purge to Date to purge the data through the specified date.
4. Click Save Record.

• Saving the run parameter settings applies the run parameter settings to the regularly
scheduled ETL process and will be in effect when the system executes the process as
scheduled.
• You can set the run parameters to execute both a data load and data purge process
simultaneously. To execute a data load and data purge simultaneously, select both
Execute Load Procedure and Purge Old Data, and then enter a Load Type, Load
from Date, and a Purge to Date.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1361 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Understanding historical inventory valuation for the data
warehouse
The data warehouse ETL process includes data marts, two of which are a stores daily
snapshot (SDS) and a parts daily snapshot (PDS). The SDS data mart captures daily
summaries of the value of your inventory by store, organization, and part class. The PDS data
mart captures daily summaries of the value of your inventory by part. However, PDS only
captures daily summaries for the parts for which you have indicated to save historical data
using the Save History check box on the Record View tab of the Parts page when creating
parts.
This section describes the manner in which the SDS and PDS derive historical inventory
valuation data for the data mart when executing the initial data load for the SDS and PDS and
how the ETL process calculates historical inventory valuation for the data warehouse for
different inventory scenarios.
Inventory valuation is normally calculated using the sum of stock value as it exists at the time
that the ETL process is executed. Historical stock values are derived using stock transactions
in reverse order and backing out the changes to stock quantities and prices. However, some
historical stock value information is either not available or is impractical for use in calculating
historical values.
Because of the manner in which historical inventory value must be determined for the
data warehouse, the calculation of historical inventory value for some of the inventory
scenarios may result in an approximate value that is as close to the exact value as possible.

Updating the invoice price
In EAM, pricing updates are determined based on the PRICETIM installation parameter. If
PRICETIM is set to I, then a new price is calculated upon approval of an invoice for the stock
item.
When updating the invoice price, the ETL process treats data from schemas set to update
prices at invoice time as though they were set to update prices upon receipt.
The data warehouse updates prices upon receipt due to the complexity of synchronizing
transactions with invoices while re-establishing historical stock levels and prices.
Large gaps between receipt and invoice time may result in inaccuracies in the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1362 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

precise time the price update occurred, which also affects the value of inventory in stores
during that period. However, because daily inventory valuations are calculated at the store,
part, and class level, small differences in price will not have a significant effect unless there is
a large price difference on an expensive item or a large quantity of that item.

Recalculating pricing based on the average price type
Regardless of the selected price type for the store (Average, Standard, Last Price, LIFO, or
FIFO), the ETL process assumes Average price type. Storeroom materials are priced at the
storeroom level in EAM based on the setting of the PRICETYP installation parameter.
Accurate historic data for price types other than Average is not available. As receipt
transactions are backed out, the part price is recalculated using the average pricing method,
but the price is adjusted to the issue price whenever an issue or return to stock transaction
occurs, unless you have selected LIFO or FIFO as the price type for a part. If you have
selected LIFO or FIFO as your price type, SDS and PDS use average price for all
transactions, including issues and returns, to ensure the accuracy of stock prices for
transactions dates occurring a long time from the current system date.

Recalculating values for repairable spare parts
No historical data is available to calculate previous values for repairable spare parts that are
currently being repaired internally and the value of the repairable spare currently being
repaired by a supplier. These values are null for historical dates.

Recalculating prices for unapproved receipt transactions
EAM assumes a RECV transaction in the R5TRANSLINES table for parts received from a
purchase order for which the receipt is not approved. However, EAM does not update the
stock quantity and price until the receipt is approved. If there is a gap in time between the
receipt and the approval of the receipt, it is possible that the quantities and prices inserted
into the parts worktable at the beginning of the process will not match the transaction.
Therefore, only approved receipt transactions are reversed.

Adjusting stock quantities of child assets in an asset hierarchy
Normally if an asset is associated with dependent child assets in a hierarchy for which costs
are tracked by asset, there are also spare parts associated with the assets in the hierarchy.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1363 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EAM adjusts the stock quantity of the child assets when the parent is issued to a work order,
and the structure of the assets is stored in the R5STRUCTURES table. However, the
R5STRUCTURES table only shows the current relationship between the assets, not any
historical relationship. Therefore, the ETL process does not consider the object hierarchy
structure when calculating historical stock values.

Viewing the data warehouse run log
View the data warehouse run log to access detailed information about data warehouse
processes. The Data Warehouse Run Log form enables you to view information such as the
operation processed, the target database object, start and end time, the elapsed time of the
process, and the status of a process. View detailed error information to view error numbers,
error messages, and sequences.
Delete run log records and error messages as necessary. We recommend that you delete old
run logs and error messages periodically.
Check the data warehouse run log for any errors after running a full load. You must
run a full load without any errors prior to switching to an incremental load. If any errors occur
during the full load, you must correct the errors and run a full load and purge until no errors
occur.

Viewing data warehouse run log details
View data warehouse run log details to access detailed information about data warehouse
processes and their status.
1. Select Administration > Data Collection > Data Warehouse Run Log.
2. Select the Run Number for which to view details, and then click the Details tab.
3. View the details for the selected Run Number.

Viewing data warehouse run log errors
View data warehouse run log errors to access detailed error information such as error
numbers and error messages.
1. Select Administration > Data Collection > Data Warehouse Run Log.
2. Select the Run Number for which to view details, and then click the Errors tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1364 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. View the errors for the selected Run Number.

Data management
Managing GDPR records
Review and maintain records in compliance with Global Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).
GDPR-related records will be processed nightly. Maintain the status of these records or delete
them on this screen. Deleting the records on this screen, removes the record and prevents it
from being processed permanently.
1. Select Administration > Security > GDPR Administration.
2. View the records.
3. To modify the status of a record so that the record can be reprocessed, specify the new
Status.
Only records with a status of E (Error) can be modified, and these records can
only be modified to S (Scheduled) status.
4. Click Delete to remove a record. Records deleted on this screen will be omitted from the
nightly processing event.
Records with a status of P (In Progress) cannot be deleted. Records with a
status of S (Scheduled) or E (Error) that are deleted will not be processed. Records with
a status of C (Completed) have already been processed.

Viewing GDPR record errors
View errors generated during the GDPR administration revocation process. Only GDPR
records with status E (Error) will display on this tab.
1. Select Administration > GDPR Administration.
2. Select the GDPR record for which to view errors, and then click the Errors tab.
3. View the errors.

Enterprise data storage with Infor Data Lake

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1365 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Infor Data Lake is a data repository that provides high-volume, scalable object storage for
real-time data from across your enterprise systems, disparate applications, people, and IoT
infrastructure. Using ION to connect your data sources, Infor applications move content into
Infor Data Lake and use other consuming applications to query and navigate Infor Data Lake
for content related to specific business cases.
What is a data lake?

A data lake is a centralized system or repository for storing data "as-is" across an enterprise.
"As-is" data or raw data, can be stored structured, semi-structured, or unstructured, with or
without hierarchy, or organization of the individual pieces of data. Additionally, data stored in a
data lake, even in its rawest form, is available for reuse at any time. This versatility and
flexibility allows a single data lake to meet all of an organization's data storage needs.
How can our organization use a data lake?

Data lakes are uniquely different from structured, highly organized relational databases in that
the raw data stored without pre-defined schemas in a data lake can be utilized for an
organization's purposes by applying schemas to data on-demand.
Among its numerous potential uses, many enterprises use data lakes as holding areas for
information that isn't immediately needed, but that may bring future value. The data stored for
future use may be archived in a data lake as per regulatory data-retention requirements. For
example, organizations legally obligated to retain records for a specified, minimum amount of
time, such as a financial institution or a hospital system may archive data in a data lake in
compliance with appropriate laws.

Scheduling data extracts from EAM
Schedule data extracts from EAM to upload to Infor Data Lake.
1. Select Administration > Data Lake > Data Lake Upload Setup.
2. The Schedule tab is opened.
3. Click New Record.
4. Specify this information:
Schedule Name - Specify the name of the schedule for the data extract.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1366 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Schedule Description - Specify a description of the scheduled data extract.
Frequency - Specify how often the schedule will run in hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, or
annual increments.
5. Click Save Record. A Schedule ID number is automatically assigned, and Schedule
Status is set to Waiting.
You cannot make updates to content selected for extraction, nor delete the content
selected for extraction when the Schedule Status is In Progress or In Queue.

Selecting tables for data extracts to Infor Data Lake
Select tables to include with data extracts from EAM to upload to Infor Data Lake.
1. Select Administration > Data Lake > Data Lake Upload Setup.
2. Select the schedule for which the tables will be included for data extracts from EAM to
upload to Infor Data Lake.
3. Click the Tables tab.
The List View shows tables previously selected for inclusion with scheduled
data extracts.
4. Click New Record.
5. Specify this information:
Table - Specify the table to extract from EAM and upload to Data Lake.
Client Table Name - Specify the name by which the client refers to the table. The
database table name is defaulted if not specified.
Schedule Order - Specify the numerical order in which the table will be uploaded to
Data Lake for the schedule.
6. Optionally, click Add/Edit Fields to select fields to include with the tables during the
data extraction. The Add/Edit Fields window is opened with the fields available for
extraction.
7. Click Submit. After the process completes, the Upload Status field will indicate the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1367 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

success or failure of the upload.

Adding fields to tables scheduled for data extracts to Infor Data Lake
Select fields to include with the tables during the data extraction from EAM to Infor Data Lake.
1. Select Administration > Data Lake > Data Lake Upload Setup.
2. Select the schedule with which the tables will be included with data extracts from EAM
to upload to Infor Data Lake.
3. Click the Tables tab.
4. Select the table for which to select fields, and then click Add/Edit Fields.
5. Click Add Field.
6. Specify this information:
Field - Specify the field to include with the table extraction.
Client Field Name - Specify the name by which the client refers to the field.
7. Optionally, select the Timestamp Field check box to indicate the field reflects the date
and time the table record was last updated.
8. Click Submit.
Timestamp Field is automatically added if you did not add the field when submitting
the first field to extract for a table.

Fleet management configuration
This section provides procedures for configuring the fleet management module.
Fleet management references EMRS codes, previously called VMRS codes in the
application.
HxGN EAM has expanded the functionality to include all equipment. Within the application, V
for Vehicle is now E for Equipment. If you reference ATA codes, these codes still exist in the
EAM application, but are now stored on the EMRS Codes screen.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1368 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Understanding fleet configuration
Use the Fleet Configuration screen to personalize the vehicle ticketing, maintenance, and
billing process for pool, loaner, and/or assignment fleets of vehicles.
First, create billing parameters to configure the point at which vehicle tickets are billed. Next,
set up billing schedules to determine the billing end dates for the period billing process, and
create exceptions to include in bills when needed.
Next, grant authorizations to specific user groups for specific vehicle types. Finally, identify
fuel, maintenance, and billing categories.
You must also define cost codes, employees, and assets for use in the fleet management
module. The cost codes, employees, and assets are not a part of the fleet management
module.

Creating parameters for fleet configuration
Set up parameters to determine the Vehicle Ticket form behavior and how the vehicle usage
will be billed.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Configuration.
2. Specify this information:
Update Ticket PM Details - Choose one of the following options:
• At Issue - Select to update the PM details on the vehicle ticket when a vehicle is
issued.
• At Return - Select to update the PM details on the vehicle ticket when a vehicle is
returned.
• Issue and Return - Select to update the PM details on the vehicle ticket when a
vehicle is issued and returned.
Previous and next PM details are updated on the ticket of the specified
time(s).
Min. Hours Billed - Specify the minimum number of hours to be billed. For
example, if the Min. Hours Billed is four hours and the vehicle is returned after

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1369 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

two hours, the customer will be billed for the minimum amount of four hours.
Offshift Billing Hours - Specify the number of hours if the usage includes any
time outside of the billing start and end time. For example, if the normal billing
hours are from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM, any hours before 8:00 AM and after 5:00 PM
will be considered offshift billing hours. Vehicles issued or returned outside the
billing hours are billed accordingly. The offshift billing hours are billed once every
24-hour period.
Prompt When No Billing Code - Select to provide a warning message from the
vehicle ticket if a billing code or markup code on the vehicle ticket cannot be found
at the time the vehicle is issued.
Billing Start Time - Select the time, in hours, at which the normal billing hours for
the day should start, and then specify the time, in minutes, at which the normal
billing hours should start in the adjacent field.
Billing End Time - Select the time, in hours, at which the normal billing hours for
the day should end, and then specify the time, in minutes, at which the normal
billing hours should end in the adjacent field.

• If both Billing Start Time and Billing End Time are empty, a 24-hour billing cycle
is selected.
• Billing Start Time must be before Billing End Time.
Round Billing Hrs. Up - Select to round the billing hours to the nearest ¼, ½, or
whole hour.
If you do not want to round the ticket billing hours up, do not specify a
value for Round Billing Hrs. Up.
Pool - Select to indicate that the fleet customer and cost code on the vehicle
record needs to be updated with the ticket values when a pool ticket is created.
Loaner - Select to indicate that the fleet customer and cost code on the vehicle
record needs to be updated with the ticket values when a loaner ticket is created.
Assignment - Select to indicate that the fleet customer and cost code on the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1370 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

vehicle record needs to be updated with the ticket values when an assignment
ticket is created.
3. Click Save Record.

• If the process fails to run automatically as scheduled, click Run Billing Process to
manually run the billing process. Customer bills are generated, beginning with the
earliest Period End Date specified on the Billing Schedules tab of the Fleet
Configuration screen that is past due. See Setting up billing schedules for fleet
configuration.
• You cannot manually run the billing process unless the Process Start Date/Time on the
Billing Schedules page is before the current system date and time; the period has not
been billed; Billed on the Billing Schedules page is unselected; and the billing process
for the record is not currently running or the billing process for the record is running but
has been running for longer than 30 minutes.

Setting up billing schedules for fleet configuration
Set up billing schedules to determine what transactions are billed and when they will be
created. At the end of the billing schedule, generate customer bills that correspond with the
billing schedule Period End Date.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Configuration.
2. Click the Billing Schedules tab.
3. Click Add Billing Schedule.
4. Specify this information:
Period End Date - Specify the date at which the billing period will end, such as 6/25/05.
Period Description - Specify a description of the billing period, such as June 2005.
Process Start Date - Specify the date at which to start the billing process for the
selected billing period.
The Process Date/Start Time must be greater than the Period End Date.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1371 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Process Start Time - Specify the time in hours and minutes at which to start the billing
process.
5. Click Submit.

• If the billing process is currently running for the period, the system selects In Process.
The system selects Billed after the billing process has been run for the billing schedule.
See Creating parameters for fleet configuration.
• You can manually select Billed to create a starting point for the first billing process.

Creating exceptions for fleet configuration
Create exception codes, and then associate fees with the exception codes that will be
included in bills. For example, create an exception code that charges customers for low
amounts of fuel in returned vehicles, and then associate a $50 fee for that specific exception.
Exception codes are associated with vehicle tickets on the Exceptions tab of the Vehicle
Ticket screen.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Configuration.
2. Click the Exception Codes tab.
3. Click Add Exception.
4. Specify this information:
Exception - Specify the exception to be applied to vehicle tickets, and then enter a
description of the exception in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization to which the exception belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Billing Amount - Specify the set fee to associate with the exception during the billing
process.
Standard WO - Specify a standard work order that can be used to create work that
corrects the exception condition for the vehicle ticket.
5. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to prevent the exception from being

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1372 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

displayed in the lookups.
6. Click Submit.

Granting vehicle ticket authorizations for fleet configuration
Grant vehicle ticket authorizations to define appropriate privileges to user groups for pool,
loaner, and assignment vehicle ticket types. Associate specific user groups with specific
vehicle ticket types, and then grant authorizations for the user group to insert, delete, and/or
update vehicle ticket records of that type.
You can only grant vehicle ticket authorizations if the installation parameter
VTTAUTH is set to ON. Contact your system administrator for more information.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Configuration.
2. Click the Vehicle Ticket Authorizations tab.
3. Click Add Authorization.
4. Specify this information:
Ticket Type - Select the vehicle ticket type with which to associate a user group.
User Group - Specify the user group to which to grant vehicle ticket authorizations.
Insert - Select to give the user group authorization to insert new vehicle ticket records.
Update - Select to give the user group authorization to update existing vehicle ticket
records.
Delete - Select to give the user group authorization to delete existing vehicle ticket
records.
5. Click Submit.

Tracking fuel costs for fleet configuration
Track fuel costs and separate fuels costs from other costs by associating part classes that
identify fuel parts in inventory. Any parts of the selected class that are issued to vehicles as
fuel are billed. Costs related to this billing category are shown on the bill.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1373 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Configuration.
2. Click the Fuel tab.
3. Click Add Part Class.
4. Specify this information:
Part Class - Specify the part class that identifies fuel parts in inventory.
5. Click Submit.

Tracking maintenance costs for fleet configuration
Track maintenance costs for fleet configuration by entering work order types that identify
maintenance or non-maintenance related costs for the billing process. Costs related to both
maintenance and non-maintenance billing categories are displayed on the bill.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Configuration.
2. Click the Maintenance tab.
3. Click Add WO Type.
4. Specify this information:
WO Type - Select the work order type for which to track maintenance costs.
Maintenance - Select to indicate that the costs are maintenance costs.
If you select Maintenance, the costs associated with work orders of this type
will display on the Billing History page of the Fleet Customers form under
Maintenance. If you clear the Maintenance check box, the costs associated with work
orders of the specified work order type will display as non-maintenance costs.
5. Click Submit.

Creating fleet billing codes
Create billing codes to determine the normal fees that customers are billed for vehicle usage
through the ticketing process. Together, billing codes and markup codes, when associated
with specific fleet customers, determine the total rates for specific fleet billing categories.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1374 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Billing Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the fleet billing code belongs if you
use multi-organization security.
Code - Specify a fleet billing code, and then enter a description of the fleet billing code
in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class to which the fleet billing code belongs.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to prevent the fleet billing code from
being displayed in the lookups.
5. Click Save Record.

Setting up rates for fleet billing codes
Set up rates for fleet billing codes. Specify particular rates for particular dates by setting up
start dates and end dates for the rates. For example, a usage rate might fluctuate during
different times of the year. Set up usage rates for usage charges, mileage rates for mileage
charges, and insurance rates for insurance charges.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Billing Codes.
2. Select the fleet billing code for which to set up rates, and then click the Rates tab.
3. Click Add Rate.
4. Specify this information:
Start Date - Specify the start date of the rate.
End Date - Specify the end date of the rate.
Start Date must be on or before the End Date.
Usage Rate Type - Choose one of the following options:
• Hourly - Select to bill usage charges by the hour.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1375 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Billing Period - Select to bill usage charges according to the billing period.
• Usage Charge - Specify the usage charge for the rate, if the rate is a usage rate.
To set up a usage rate, you must specify both a Usage Rate Type and a
Usage Charge.
Mileage Charge - Specify the mileage charge for the rate, if the rate is a mileage
rate.
Insurance Charge - Specify the insurance charge for the rate, if the rate is an
insurance rate.
5. Click Submit.

Creating fleet markup codes
Create fleet markup codes. Markup codes are used to charges additional fees above and
beyond the normal fees, i.e., profit margin. Together, billing codes and markup codes, when
associated with specific fleet customers, determine the total rates for fleet billing categories.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Markup Codes.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the fleet markup code belongs if you
use multi-organization security.
Code - Specify a fleet markup code, and then specify a description of the fleet markup
code in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class to which the fleet markup code belongs.
4. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box to prevent the fleet markup code from
being displayed in the lookups.
5. Click Save Record.

Setting up rates for fleet markup codes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1376 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Set up rates for fleet markup codes. Specify particular rates for particular dates by setting up
start dates and end dates for the rates. A markup can be expressed as a flat rate or a flat
percentage. For example, select to mark up the cost of fuel by 20 USD (per inventory UOM)
or by 50 percent.
You cannot enter a markup charge and a markup percentage for the same markup
code.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Markup Codes.
2. Select the fleet markup code for which to set up rates, and then click the Rates tab.
3. Click Add Rate.
4. Specify this information:
Start Date - Specify the start date of the rate.
End Date - Specify the end date of the rate.
Start Date must be on or before End Date.
Fuel - Specify the markup amount for fuel charges.
Labor - Specify the markup amount for labor charges.
Parts - Specify the markup amount for parts charges.
Contract Labor - Specify the markup amount for contract labor charges.
Pool Mileage - Specify the markup amount for mileage charges on pool tickets.
Loaner Mileage - Specify the markup amount for mileage charges on loaner tickets.
Assignment Mileage - Specify the markup amount for mileage charges on assignment
tickets.
Pool Usage - Specify the markup amount for usage charges on pool tickets.
Loaner Usage - Specify the markup amount for usage charges on loaner tickets.
Assignment Usage - Specify the markup amount for usage charges on assignment
tickets.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1377 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Insurance - Specify the markup amount for insurance charges.
Fuel % - Specify the markup percentage for fuel charges.
Labor % - Specify the markup percentage for labor charges.
Parts % - Specify the markup percentage for parts charges.
Contract Labor % - Specify the markup percentage for contract labor charges.
Pool Mileage % - Specify the markup percentage for mileage charges on pool tickets.
Loaner Mileage % - Specify the markup percentage for mileage charges on loaner
tickets.
Assignment Mileage % - Specify the markup percentage for mileage charges on
assignment tickets.
Pool Usage % - Specify the markup percentage for usage charges on pool tickets.
Loaner Usage % - Specify the markup percentage for usage charges on loaner tickets.
Assignment Usage % - Specify the markup percentage for usage charges on
assignment tickets.
Insurance % - Specify the markup percentage for charges on insurance tickets.
5. Click Submit.

Setting up fleet customers
Set up fleet customers to use throughout the Fleet Management system. Set up billing details
to determine the costs for which the customer is billed.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Customers.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Organization - Specify the organization to which the fleet customer belongs if you use
multi-organization security.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1378 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Fleet Customer - Specify the name of the fleet customer, and then enter a description
of the fleet customer in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class to which the fleet customer belongs.
Billable - Select if the customer will be billed.
You must select Billable to generate bills for the customer.
Out of Service - Select to prevent the fleet customer from being displayed in the
lookups.
Bill for No Charges - Select to print a bill by default when the bill is for $0.
Maintenance Labor - Select to bill for maintenance labor.
Maintenance Contract Labor - Select to bill for maintenance contract labor.
Maintenance Parts - Select to bill for maintenance parts.
Fuel - Select to bill for fuel.
Mileage - Select to bill for mileage.
Usage - Select to bill for usage.
Non-maintenance Labor - Select to bill for non-maintenance labor.
Non-maintenance Contract Labor - Select to bill for non-maintenance contract labor.
Non-maintenance Parts - Select to bill for non-maintenance parts.
Insurance - Select to bill for insurance.
Exceptions - Select to bill for exceptions.
4. Click Save Record.

Associating cost codes with fleet customers
Associate cost codes with fleet customers to correctly display transaction costs on fleet bills.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Customers.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1379 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the fleet customer with which to associate cost codes, and then click the Cost
Codes tab.
3. Click Add Cost Code.
4. Specify this information:
Cost Code - Specify the cost code with which to associate the fleet customer.
You can only associate a cost code with one fleet customer.
5. Click Submit.

Associating billing codes with fleet customers
Associate billing codes with fleet customers. By associating a specific billing code with a
specific fleet customer, you determine the rate for a specific billing category. Together billing
codes and markup codes, when associated with specific fleet customers, determine the total
rates for fleet billing categories such as usage and mileage.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Customers.
2. Select the fleet customer with which to associate billing codes, and then click the Billing
Codes tab.
3. Click Add Code.
4. Specify this information:
Billing Code - Specify the billing code with which to associate the fleet customer.
Markup Code - Specify the markup code with which to associate the fleet customer.
You must specify a Billing Code and/or a Markup Code.
Equipment Type - Select the equipment type with which to associate the fleet
customer.
Equipment Class - Specify the equipment class with which to associate the fleet
customer.
Equipment Category - Specify the equipment category with which to associate the fleet

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1380 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

customer.
Maintenance Labor - Select to bill for maintenance labor.
Maintenance Contract Labor - Select to bill for maintenance contract labor.
Maintenance Parts - Select to bill for maintenance parts.
Fuel - Select to bill for fuel.
Mileage - Select to bill for mileage.
Usage - Select to bill for usage.
Non-maintenance Labor - Select to bill for non-maintenance labor.
Non-maintenance Contract Labor - Select to bill for non-maintenance contract labor.
Non-maintenance Parts - Select to bill for non-maintenance parts.
Insurance - Select to bill for insurance.
Exceptions - Select to bill for exceptions.
5. Click Submit.

Viewing billing histories for fleet customers
Views all previously generated bills, or view a specific billing cycle by entering a Period End
Date. Fleet bill charges are summarized to the unique fleet customer cost code and vehicle
level. Charges are shown by the following categories:
• Usage
• Mileage
• Maintenance
• Non-maintenance
• Fuel
• Insurance

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1381 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Exceptions
The system also displays a total charge for each bill line, a subtotal, which summarizes the
charges for all bill lines by category, an adjustment line, which summarizes all adjustments
entered for previous bills that are included in the selected bill, grand totals of each of the
charge categories, and a total bill charge. You can also select to print bills and view current
charges.
When filtering the billing histories, Subtotals and Totals may change because they
are relative to the specific fleet bill lines in the grid. Adjustments totals will not change, as
they are related to the entire bill.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Customers.
2. Select the fleet customer for which to view billing history, and then click the Billing
History tab.
3. Specify this information:
Period End Date - Specify the period end date for which to view a bill for a specific fleet
customer. Bill No. is automatically populated.
4. Optionally, click Current Charges to view billing details from the current billing period’s
start date through the system date (today). If a past period needs to be billed, the
current period data cannot be shown.
5. View the billing history.
6. Optionally, click Print Bill to print the bill. You must specify a Period End Date to print
the bill. You cannot print current charges.

Viewing fleet bill transactions for fleet customers
View individual transaction information for specific billing categories. For example, select
Usage as the Category, and then click View Transactions.
The specific usage transactions that make up the usage subtotal for the selected line are
shown. This includes usages charges and usage markup charges.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Customers.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1382 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Select the fleet customer for which to view fleet bill transactions, and then click the
Billing History tab.
3. Specify this information:
Period End Date - Specify the period end date for which to view fleet bill transactions
for a specific fleet customer, and then select the bill line for which to view bill
transactions for fleet customers. Bill No. is automatically populated.
4. Select the fleet bill line for which to view fleet bill transaction for fleet customers.
You must specify a Period End Date and select a bill line to view fleet bill
transactions. You cannot view fleet bill transactions for current charges.
5. Choose one of the following options for Category:

Option

Description

Usage

Select to show usage charges only.

Mileage

Select to show mileage charges only.

Maintenance Labor

Select to show maintenance labor charges only.

Maintenance Parts

Select to show maintenance parts charges only.

Non-maintenance Labor

Select to show non-maintenance labor charges only.

Non-maintenance Parts

Select to show non-maintenance parts charges only.

Fuel

Select to show fuel charges only.

Insurance

Select to show insurance charges only.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1383 of 2039

Exceptions

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select to show exception charges only.

6. Click View Transactions.
7. View the charges for the specific transaction category.

Viewing fleet bill adjustment transactions for fleet customers
View individual adjustment transaction information for specific billing categories. For example,
select Usage as the Category, and then click View Adjustment Transactions.
The specific usage adjustment charges that make up the entire bill are shown. This includes
usages adjustment charges and usage markup charges. All adjustments related to the bill and
category are shown.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Customers.
2. Select the fleet customer for which to view fleet bill adjustment transactions, and then
click the Billing History tab.
3. Specify this information:
Period End Date - Specify the period end date for which to view fleet bill adjustment
transactions for a specific fleet customer, and then select the bill line for which to view
fleet bill adjustment transactions for specific customers.
You must specify a Period End Date to view fleet bill adjustment transactions. You
cannot view fleet bill adjustment transactions for current charges.
Category - Choose one of the following options:

Option

Description

Usage

Select to show usage charges only.

Mileage

Select to show mileage charges only.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1384 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Maintenance Labor

Select to show maintenance labor charges only.

Maintenance Parts

Select to show maintenance parts charges only.

Non-maintenance Labor

Select to show non-maintenance labor charges only.

Fuel

Select to show fuel charges only.

Insurance

Select to show insurance charges only.

Exceptions

Select to show exception charges only.

4. Click View Adjustment Transactions.
5. View the charges for the specific adjustment transaction category.

Replacing fleet cost codes
Replace non-billable cost codes on all fleet transactions that will be billed to a fleet customer
on the next bill. Replace cost codes on transactions before bills are generated and sent to the
general ledger.
First, search cost codes for non-billable cost codes that are associated with at least one fleet
transaction (work order, inventory transaction, vehicle ticket, or ticket adjustment) that will be
billed in the next scheduled billing period and are not currently locked for replacement by
another user. Next, replace existing code values with new cost code values for the
appropriate transactions.
You must have query privileges on the Fleet Cost Code Search & Replace screen
for the cost code organization in order to search and replace cost codes.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Cost Code Search & Replace.
2. Click Search. The number of transactions associated with the non-billable cost code for
the current period are calculated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1385 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You cannot search and replace cost codes for billed transactions. You cannot
search and replace cost codes for periods that are past due and not billed.
3. View the list of non-billable cost codes that are associated with at least one fleet
transaction that will be billed in the next scheduled billing period and are not currently
locked for replacement by another user.
4. Specify this information:
New Cost Code - Specify a new cost code for every Current Cost Code that must be
replaced.
Remove - Select to remove the record from the grid. All transactions are removed at
once.
To clear all the line items at once, clear the Remove check box.
5. Click Replace.
You must specify New Cost Codes before clicking Replace.

Viewing cost code errors
View all errors that occurred during the cost code search and replace process.
1. Select Work > Fleet > Fleet Cost Code Search & Replace.
2. Select the record for which to view cost code errors, and then click the Errors tab.
3. View the cost code error information.

Archiving management
Archive work orders, purchase orders, stock transactions, electronic records, and audit trail
records.

Archiving records
Archive work orders, purchase orders, stock transactions, electronic records, and audit trail
records.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1386 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• During the archive process archived items are removed from normal view. The items are
added to separate archive tables.
• Archived items will no longer be available for reports or budgets.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Archive Records.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Archive Through - Specify the date through which to archive.
4. Optionally, select the Work check box to archive work orders where System Status=C
and Date Completed <=Archive Through, and then specify the Work Order Type to
further filter the available work records for archiving.
The following are archived in connection to work order and work order activities:

Archived Items

Qualifications

Schedules

Additional charges

Materials Lists with Event

Pick Lists for the WO

Booked hours

Quotations with Services for the WO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1387 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Purchase Orders with Direct Materials for WO Activities

Repair Parts

Calculated costs for the WO Costs

Costs

Instruments (Calibration)

Standards (Calibration)

Systems (EMRS)

Test Points (Calibration)

Aspects (Inspection)

Points (Inspection)

Linear References

Account Details

Matched invoices for POs

Requisitions with WO on header

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1388 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Quotations that reference the Requisition

Receipts for Direct Materials for WO Activities

Dock Receipts for Direct Materials for WO Activities

Issues/Returns for WO Activities

Supplier Evaluations for WO Activities

Warranty Claims for WO Activities

Reservations for WO Activities

Tools requested for WO Activities

Tool Usage for WO Activities

Customer Contracts for the WO

Customer Invoices with lines for the WO

Fixed payments for the customer contract

Dispatches for standing WO Activities

Only those with a Status of Approved or Completed are archived.
5. Select the Purchasing check box to archive purchasing transactions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1389 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The following are archived related to archived invoices:

Archived Items

Invoices with Matched or Cancelled status

Lines

Extra charges and discounts

Extra charges for costs tab

Invoice allocations

Account details

The following are archived related to archived purchase orders:

Archived Items

PO Headers-Order clauses, lines, extra charges, revisions

Blanket Orders

Booked Hours

Dock receipts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1390 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Packing slips

Invoices

Order Tracking

Supplier Evaluation

The following are archived related to archived requisitions:

Archived Items

Requisitions headers with Approved or Cancelled status

Lines

WOs

WO repair parts referencing the Requisition/Requisition line

Packing Warranty claims referencing the Requisition/Requisition line

Transactions

The following are archived related to archived quotations:

Archived Items

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1391 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Quotation headers and lines

6. Select the Stock Transactions check box to archive stock transactions with a Status of
Approved or Cancelled.
The following are archived related to stock transactions:

Archived Items

Issues/Returns

Price Correction

Manual Price Type

Return for Repair

Stocktake with Approved or Cancelled status

7. Select the Audit Trail check box to archive the audit trail, a history of changed records.
8. Select the Electronic Records check box to archive electronic records.
The following shared tables are archived related to archived work orders, work order
transactions, purchasing transactions, and stock transactions.

Archived Items

Descriptions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1392 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Audit Trail Records

Electronic Signatures

Event Addresses

Documents

Comments

Custom Fields

Associated Parts

Permits

Account Details

• Select a value from 0 to 23 for the ARCHTIME install parameter to schedule a
time for the archive process to run between 12:00 AM and 11:00 PM, such as, for
12:00 AM, select 0 and for 11:00 PM, select 23.
• Set the ARCHTIME to null to let the archive process run immediately on clicking
Start.
9. Click Start to begin the archive process.
10. The archive record is saved.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1393 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Click Status to view the number of records archived.
• Click Stop to halt the archive process. This will stop the process but will not cancel the
process. The current archive record will finish before stopping. The transactions already
archived will not roll back.

Viewing archive results
1. Select Administration > Setup > Archive Records.
2. Click the tab corresponding to the archive results you wish to view.
3. View the archive results.

Viewing archived work order events
View archived work order events and the associated records.
1. Select Administration > Archived Events.
2. View the archived events.
3. Optionally, click the tab corresponding to the archived work order events records you
wish to view:

Option

Description

Activities tab

To view activities for archived work order events.

Book Labor tab

To view booked labor for archived work order events.

Qualifications tab

To view qualifications for archived work order events.

Scheduled Labor tab

To view scheduled labor for archived work order
events.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1394 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Transactions tab

To view transactions for archived work order events.

Additional Costs tab

To view additional costs for archived work order
events.

Booked Vendor Hours tab

To view booked vendor hours for archived work order
events.

Comments tab

To view comments for archived work order events.

Web service prompt execution
System administrators can create user-defined screens that utilize the underlying web
services on which the system is architected.
The Web Service Prompt Engine displays the screen representing the prompt definition. The
Web Service Prompt Engine also processes data entered for the prompt transactions through
the underlying web services.
Because the Web Service Prompt Engine uses web services, the data is processed directly to
the underlying tables as the transactions are submitted. Therefore, you receive immediate
feedback if the transaction is successful as well as if it contains validation or web service
errors. These errors can then be corrected in 'real time' and re-submitted.
Once a web service prompt has been created, the system administrator must place the
corresponding screen into the user groups menu structure. That process makes the new
screen available through the menu structure, and the new screen appears like all other
screens within the system. The screen name is equivalent to the prompt description. You
need only query permissions for the new screen.
User defined fields are available for web service prompts. The fields display in a list
of all fields under the appropriate web service. These user defined fields inherit properties
from the associated reference form. Right-click in Screen Designer mode to define options for
user defined fields.
The following apply to screens based on web service prompts:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1395 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Screens

Behavior/Expectations

The lookup defined on
Is not automatically displayed
the selected screen for a
chosen field

They are standalone
record view screens

With no tabs and no Dataspy filtering features

Dataspy, Export to
Excel, Quick Filter, and
Save Layout

Options are not available

Common tabs and popups

(Comments, Documents, Addresses, etc.) are not available

Available toolbar options Previous Screen, Save, Reset Screen, and Help

Right-click options

Not available

The system administrator must associate a Query Code or define a Retrieved Value
for each lookup field unless the field is a user defined field with lookup definitions defined on
the inherited screen.

Executing web service prompts
Submit one or more transactions using one or more web services to execute the web service
prompts.
1. Create a web service prompt.
2. Associate the new web service prompt with a user group menu.
3. Select a Web Service Prompt screen. The screen is displayed in insert mode, based

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1396 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

on the underlying web service prompt field defined. The Web Service Prompt
description is displayed as the screen name.

• Each web service defined for the prompt is displayed in its own section.
• Each section contains a header containing the name of the web service for which
the section is based, such as AddWorkOrder, AddActivity, and DeletePart.
• The prompt fields for each web service section header are displayed in ascending
order by Sequence.
• If a Query Code is defined for the prompt field, a lookup button for the field is
displayed.
• If the prompt field is Computed, the statement in Computed Data is used to
populate the field value. These calculations are performed when the transaction is
saved.
• If the prompt field is a check box, a check box is displayed next to the Field Label.
• If a Pattern Match is defined for a prompt field and you leave the field, the value
entered in the field is guaranteed to match the defined pattern.
• If Use Previous Value is selected for a prompt field and insert mode is entered,
the field values from the previous record are automatically populated for any fields
that have Use Previous Value checked on the web service prompt.
4. Specify values for the displayed prompt fields.
5. Click Save. The specified data is submitted through the web services related to the
prompt. Web Services are processed by the Web Service Prompt Engine in ascending
order by Process Group.

Executing a web service prompt containing an 'update' web
service
Execute a web service prompt containing an 'update' web service.
1. Create a web service prompt.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1397 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Associate the new web service prompt with a user group menu.
3. Select a Web Service Prompt screen. The screen is displayed in insert mode, based
on the underlying web service prompt field defined. The Web Service Prompt
description is displayed as the screen name.
Key fields defined in the 'update' web service prompt are displayed. These
fields are used to uniquely identify a database record. For example, if updating
equipment, you must enter the equipment code and organization.
4. Specify the key field data. When you tab out of the last key field or click Save, the key
field information is used to retrieve the field data defined in the 'update' prompt
definition. The key fields are protected by the system.
5. Update other fields as necessary.
6. Click Save.

Executing a web service prompt containing a 'delete' web service
Execute a web service prompt containing a 'delete' web service.
1. Create a web service prompt.
2. Associate the new web service prompt with a user group menu.
3. Select a Web Service Prompt screen. The screen is displayed in insert mode, based
on the underlying web service prompt field defined. The Web Service Prompt
description is displayed as the screen name.
Key fields defined in the 'delete' web service prompt are displayed. These fields
are used to uniquely identify a database record. For example, if deleting equipment, you
must enter the equipment code and organization.
4. Specify the key field data. When you tab out of the last key field or click Save, the key
field information is used to identify the database record for deletion.
5. Click Save.

Installation parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1398 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The tables in this appendix display a list of parameters for HxGN EAM and the add-on
products available for HxGN EAM including the installation code, an example of a valid
parameter value, and a description of how the system uses the code.
This section describes HxGN EAM functions that only a system administrator has
rights to perform.

Understanding installation parameters
During the HxGN EAM installation process, installation parameters enable different
modules/system components and establish many default values for your system, such as
multi-organization security, part pricing, etc. Part of the installation process involves running
scripts that set these default values in the HxGN EAM database, and many of the scripts
contain values known as installation codes or parameters.
This appendix contains a complete listing of all the installation parameters used for HxGN
EAM broken down by modules, as well as codes related to add-on modules and other
advanced system features.
Many of the parameters set during installation are "fixed," which means that once the
parameter is set, the value/setting of the parameter cannot be changed or modified. Fixed
parameters are also designated in the tables below.
Unless otherwise indicated, all non-fixed parameters can be set as necessary following the
HxGN EAM installation to tailor your system environment.
See Defining installation parameters.

Barcode parameters
Barcoding is an add-on module for HxGN EAM that enables you to design and print barcode
labels for assets, parts, work orders, etc.
Set values for barcode parameters according to the following table.

Code

BARCODB

Description

This code indicates the prefix of the barcode
bin.

Fixed

Yes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1399 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: B

BARCODL

This code indicates the prefix of the barcode
lot.

Yes

Example: L

BARCODN

This code indicates the prefix of the serial
number of the barcode equipment.

Yes

Example: N

BARCODO

This code indicates the prefix of the barcode
equip- ment.

Yes

Example: O

BARCODP

This code indicates the prefix of the barcode
part.

Yes

Example: P

BARCODS

This code indicates the prefix of the barcode
store.

Yes

Example: S

BARCODV

This code indicates the prefix of the barcode
physical inventory.

Yes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1400 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: V

BARCODW

This code indicates the prefix of barcode of
work order and activity.

Yes

Example: W

BARFILL

Single-character filler between a work order
and ac- tivity bar code.

No

Example: #

Base parameters
Base parameters are related to core system components and features that must be set for
HxGN EAM (Oracle Forms) and HxGN EAM to work properly. Base parameters also include
settings for Databridge.
Set values for base parameters according to the following table. See Defining installation
parameters.

Code

$BTRACE

Description

Enables the BAIM trace utility. Set the
parameter to YES to enable the trace
functionality. Set the parameter to NO to
disable the trace functionality. The default
value for this parameter is NO and should
only be set to YES at the request of a
customer support technician.

Fixed

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1401 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: No

$CATSF

Financial Parameter for Category code for
type SF.

No

Example: 1

$CATSH

Financial Parameter for Category code for
type SH.

No

Example: 1

$CATST

Financial Parameter for Category code for
type ST.

No

Example: 1

$LTRCDIR

Identifies the trace file directory created on
the HxGN EAM server for the insertion of
trace files for local transactions

No

The value used in this parameter should be
from the perspective of someone looking at a
command prompt on the server. Do not use
the value of a mapped drive.

Example: F:\BAIMTRACE

$REQNUM

Parameter for Requisition Number from
HxGN EAM to be sent to APPS.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1402 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: YES

$RTRCDIR

Identifies the trace file directory created on
No
the Oracle Applications server for the
insertion of trace files for remote transactions

You must only specify a value for $RTRCDIR
for implementations in a distributed
environment. The value used in this
parameter should be from the perspective of
someone looking at a command prompt on
the server. Do not use the value of a mapped
drive.

Example: F:\BAIMTRACE

$SERVUOM

Unit of Measure for Service types to be sent
to APPS.

No

Example: EA

$SFLTYPE

Financial Parameter for Line type for type SF. No

Example: 1

$STLTYPE

Financial Parameter for Line type for type
SH,ST.

No

Example: 1

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1403 of 2039

@ADDPO

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Add PO Outbound transaction is activated.

No

Example: Y

@ADDREQ

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Add Requisition transaction is activated.

No

Example: Y

@CANPO

This code indicates whether the Databridge No
Cancel PO Outbound transaction is activated.

Example: Y

@CANPORL

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Cancel requisition lines for Cancel PO
Inbound transaction is activated.

No

Example: N

@CANREQ

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Cancel Requisition transaction is activated.

No

Example: Y

@CHGPO

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Change PO Outbound transaction is
activated.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1404 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: Y

@CHGREQ

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Change Requisition is activated.

No

Example: Y

@CSMGMT

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Case Management outbound event is
activated.

Example: N

@DBPID

Databridge DUNS+4 partner ID.

Yes

Example: 2

@DOCKREC

Indicates whether the Databridge ReceivePO No
transaction will support on-dock receipts. Set
to Y to enable on-dock receipts for the
ReceivePO transaction.

Example: N

@HMSINT

HxGN EAM is integrated with Infor HMS.
Enter YES if integrated. Enter NO if not
integrated.

No

Example: NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1405 of 2039

@INVREAP

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Determines if Databridge will re-approve an No
approved invoice. If NO, the approved invoice
will not be re-approved by Databridge, and no
field except paid date is editable. If YES,
Databridge will update and re-approve an
approved invoice. This is default.

Example: YES

@LDPAY

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Load Payable Outbound transaction is
activated.

No

Example: Y

@MSGARCA

Determines if all messages get archived
No
earlier than the archive cut-off date. Specify Y
or N.

@NEWACT

This code indicates whether to automatically
create an activity when INFOREAM.ACT tag
is null.

No

Example: N

@NEWPART

This code indicates whether to automatically
create a new part when ITEM tag is null.

No

Example: N

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1406 of 2039

@NITMOUT

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Sync Item Outbound transaction exports
temporary parts.

No

Example: N

@PORECV

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Receive PO Outbound transaction is
activated.

No

Example: Y

@SECROLE

Determines if security role outbound is
activated.

No

Example: N

@STRBIN

Is Store bin outbound activated?

No

Example: N

@SUPRMA

The Supplier RMA Outbound option
determines whether the event is enabled. If
Yes, when a supplier return is approved,
Databridge generates an event. If No,
Databridge will not generate an event.

No

Example: N

@SYNCITM

This code indicates whether the Databridge

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1407 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Sync Item Outbound transaction is activated.

Example: Y

@SYNCPRJ

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Sync Proj Info Outbound transaction is
activated.

No

Example: Y

@SYNCRES

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Sync Reservation transaction is activated.

No

Example: Y

@SYNCWO

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Sync Maint Order transaction is activated.

No

Example: Y

@UPDINV

This code indicates whether the Databridge
Update Invy Outbound transaction is
activated.

No

Example: Y

@UPDPTM

This code indicates whether the Databridge No
Update Person Time Outbound transaction is
activated.
Example: Y

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1408 of 2039

~QUEUES~

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Number of concurrent queues.

No

Example: 1

~SLEEP~

This code indicates the interval time (in
seconds) for the BDRV driver.

No

Example: 15

~SLEEPB0

This code indicates the interval time (in
seconds) for BDRV queue 0.

No

Example: 86400

~SLEEPT0

This code indicates the interval time (in
seconds) for TDRV queue 0.

No

Example: 3600

7IACDKEY

HxGN EAM CD key.

No

Example: 000-0000-00000-XXXX

7IBCDKEY

HxGN EAM Barcode module CD key.

No

Example: 000-0000-00000-0000

7ICCDKEY

HxGN EAM Reports Consumer CD Key.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1409 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: 000-0000-00000-XXXX

7IMCDKEY

HxGN EAM Mobile CD key.

No

Example: 000-0000-00000-000A

7IPCDKEY

HxGN EAM Reports Author CD Key.

No

Example: 000-0000-00000-XXXX

7IWCDKEY

HxGN EAM Mobile CD key.

No

Example: 000-0000-00000-000C

ACCOUNT

This code indicates whether accounting
information is to be upgraded to use the
DR/CR format (YES) or uses * for all
accounts (NO).

No

Example: YES

ADVREPT

Indicates whether you are using the HxGN
No
EAM Advanced Reporting or another
reporting product. Set to YES to indicate that
you are using the Advanced Reporting
Module. Set to NO if you are using another
reporting product.

Example: YES

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1410 of 2039

ALWUSRCR

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Will allow or restrict the Just In Time User
creation.

No

Example: YES, NO

AMSGCOST

Indicates the maximum allowable SQL score No
for Alert Management grid Dataspies.
Example: 250

APPLGWH

Specifies the width and height of the image
displayed on the header of the application in
widthxheight format.

No

Example: 25x25

APPLOGO

Determines the image displayed on the
header of the application. Specify the URL
location of the image to display it. Leave
blank to use the default image.

If a value is specified, setting a value
for APPLGWH is also strongly recommended.

Example: http://google.com/image.gif
<http://google.com/image.gif%20%5Ch>

APPNAME

Determines the application name displayed
on the login page and the header of the
application.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1411 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1 To display the default application name,
leave blank.

2 To exclude or not display an application
name, enter a hyphen.

3 To display an alternate application name,
specify it.

ARCHTIME

This code indicates the time of day at which No
the archiving process runs. Values are in 24hour time (0-23). The default is ‘2’ (2:00 A.M.)
Leave this value blank to execute the
archiving process immediately.

Example: 2

ARCREC

This code indicates whether HxGN EAM
stores error records from the data collection

No

module in table R5ARCINTERRORS. If set to
YES, the system stores the records in
R5ARCINTERRORS. If set to NO, the system
does not store the records.

Example: NO

ASDEPTYP

Default depreciation method: This code
indicates the default depreciation method for
asset depreciation. However, you can also
set the depreciation method at the
organization level.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1412 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

SL= straight line

SYD=sum of years digits

DDB=double declining balance

UOO= units of output

Example: SL

AUTOANUM

This code indicates whether HxGN EAM
automatically generates asset numbers.

-

Example: NO

AUTOKBNM

This code indicates whether the system auto- No
generates knowledge base article codes.
Valid values are ‘YES’ and ‘NO.’
Example: NO

BIRSTPAS

Birst Password for Single User Environment

No

BIRSTSP

Birst Space ID for Birst Deployed
Environment

No

BIRSTURL

Birst Server URL and Port

No

BIRSTUSR

Birst Users for Single User Environment

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1413 of 2039

BRETRIES

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Maximum number of retries in the BDRV
driver.

No

Example: 5

CASCADE

This code indicates whether cascading
No
occurs for cost code changes made on the
equipment forms (Asset, Position, System) to
the Equipment tab of the PM form.

Example: YES

CAETYPE

Determines which external code type the
application will extract from the client
certificate, and store in
r5users.usr_externcode (External User ID
field on the Users screen in EAM).

CN, EDIPI

External code types:

1. Common Name (CN): extracted from
Distinguished Subject Name

2. Electronic Data Interchange Personal
Identifier (EDIPI): 10-digit number extracted
from Common Name

CALOGOUT

Determines the URL the user is directed to
http:/www.in- for.com
when certificate-based client authentication is
used.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1414 of 2039

CCMNGLID

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify an EAM user ID to be used by the
No
application when accessing IDM. This is only
used when accessing IDM is not the result of
a direct EAM user action, such as the Service
Request Portal. The EAM User ID and
External User ID are populated based on the
valid user ID specified here, and then used by
the application to access IDM.

Example: a valid EAM user ID

CDKEY

CD key code. Enter the number from the CD
label in MP5SET.SQL when installing the
HxGN EAM Oracle database.

No

Example: 000-00A0-00000-B0C0

CDKEYAM

Advanced Mobile CD key code.

CDKEYMR

Mobile Requestor CD key code.

CDKEYREQ

HxGN EAM Requestor CD key code.

No

Example: 000-00A0-00000-B0C0

CGMPONLY

This code indicates whether HxGN EAM will No
create an electronic record and/or require an
electronic signature for work performed on
cGMP equipment. To configure electronic
records and signatures for cGMP equipment,
you must set this parameter to YES and set
up electronic records and signatures for the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1415 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EVNT entity.

If CGMPONLY is set to YES and you have
configured electronic records/signatures for
the EVNT entity, HxGN EAM will only create
an electronic record and/or require an
electronic signature for any work orders
created for cGMP equipment.

If CGMPONLY is set to NO and you have
configured electronic records and signatures
for the EVNT entity, HxGN EAM will create
electronic records and/or require an
electronic signature for all work performed on
any equipment.

Example: NO

CLNTAUTH

Determines if certificate based client

No, Yes

authentication is enabled or disabled for the
application.

CMORGALL

Select Yes to add all common Org.'s to the
No
new users, and to attach a new common Org.
to all users. Select No if you don't want to add
all common Org.'s to the new users, and you
do not want to attach a new common Org. to
all users. Select * to add * common Org.'s to
the new users, and to attach a new * common
Org. to all users.

Example: *

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1416 of 2039

CSVDATEF

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

CSV Export date format. This is the java
format of the date fields to be exported.

No

Example: YYYY-MM-DD

DBNAME

This code identifies your database, such as
No
‘Production’, ‘Development’ or ‘TEST’. The
install parameter also supports the use of four
standard variables: MP5USER,
:MP5DFLTORG, :MP5GROUP, and
:MP5ORG.

Example: Production

DEFCALLR

This code defines the default value for Find
Caller By on Service Request. 1 = E-mail, 2
= Customer, 3 = Name, 4 = Phone. Valid
values are

No

1, 2, 3, and 4.

DEFCURR

Base currency. All rates for other currencies No
refer to this default currency. Do not change
this setting once in use. After you set this default, you cannot change it without introducing
inconsistencies to the database.

Example: EUR

DEFLANG

Base language. HxGN EAM uses this
Yes
parameter during installation. Do not change
this setting once in use. After installation, you
cannot change this value because HxGN

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1417 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EAM cannot retrieve certain system records
in an alternative language.

Example: FR

DEFORG

Default Organization value for entities with
multi-organization security set to OFF.

Yes

Example: *

DSSLTIME

The amount of time, in seconds, that will flag No
a Dataspy as slow. Once it is flagged as slow,
the user will be warned each time they
attempt to run the Dataspy. Leave blank to
disable.

Example: 60, 90

DOCCOMM

Controls the organization available for
selection during the uploading of new
documents. If set to ON, users can upload
new documents to common organizations. If
set to OFF, uploading new documents is
restricted to specific organizations only.

No

This parameter does not affect the
Profile Picture or image link buttons, the
Documents screen, or web services through
which common documents can still be
uploaded.

Example: ON, OFF

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1418 of 2039

DOCOPEN

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Set to YES to open documents in a new
window when users view documents. Set to
OFF to always download the document rather
than view the document.

Browser settings may impact results.

Example: ON, OFF

DOCOVRWR

Set to YES to allow previously uploaded
documents to be updated. If set to YES, a
copy of the overwritten document is not
maintained. Set to NO to prevent overwriting
previously uploaded documents. This
parameter is not enforced when Infor
Document Management (IDM) is in use.

DUALCURR

Dual currency. EUR indicates whether to use No
the triangular conversion method to convert
currency amounts to and from EURO
currency.

Example: EUR

ENXHOST

ENX Suite Host URL (e.g.
http://servername:8080/enxsuite)

No

EPAKURL

URL path for the EPAK server. This path will
be used to display EPAK

No

content for HxGN EAM.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1419 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: http://www.google.com
/?what=yes <http://www.google.com
/?what=yes%20%5Ch>

ESIGMODE

Electronic signature mode: Set to U to default No
the User ID on the electronic signature popup window. Set to B to require only one
signature for a batch update of multiple
records. Set to UB to default the User ID, and
require only one signature for a batch update
of multiple records. Leave blank to require the
User ID to be manually entered, and to
require a signature for each impacted record
of a batch update.

Example: UB

ESMONTHS

Number of months for which to (re)calculate
Energy Star readings. For example, if the
current month is May and the number of
months is set to 3, then readings will be
created for February, March, and April.

No

Example: 3

FAAMOD

Electronic signature mode: Set to ON for FAA No
which requires the Certificate Number and
Certificate Type fields. Set to OFF for FDA
which does not use the Certificate fields.

Example: OFF

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1420 of 2039

FLXAUDIT

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This number determines the number of
milliseconds after which the performance of
Flex statements will be audited if the
statement takes longer.

No

Example: 999999

FRONTPG

Print front page code. This code indicates the No
default value for Include Front Page on the
Print dialog box. The default value for this
parameter is YES.

If the parameter is set to YES, Include Front
Page is selected by default. If the parameter
is set to NO, Include Front Page is
unselected by default.

GDPROPTN

Set to ON to enable the Revoke option for
Callers, Contacts, Employees, Supervisors

No

and Users. Set to OFF to hide the Revoke
option.

GRIDCOST

SQL score for Dataspies.

No

Example: 100

HOSTED

This code indicates whether the installation is Yes
hosted.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1421 of 2039

HTMLCOMM

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Set to ON to display the HTML editor bar on No
the Comments page. Set to OFF to hide the
HTML editor bar.

Example: OFF

HTMLKB

Set to ON to enable HTML-editing capability No
on the Article Text field on Knowledge Base
Articles. Set to OFF to disable HTML-editing
capability.

Example: ON, OFF

IDMSRVR

URL of the Infor Document Manager
application server.

No

Example: IDM URL(e.g.
https://servername:8080/ca/)

IMSCKEY

Access Key/Consumer Key to be configured
for IMS to be used for OAuth.

databridgeims

This value should never be null.

IMSSKEY

Secret key Value to be configured for IMS to
be used for OAuth.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1422 of 2039

INBXSCOR

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

SQL score for inbox queries. The setting of
No
this parameter determines whether or not the
system will allow inbox queries to run that do
not have a sufficient score.

Example: 100

INCRLINO

Increment value. Enter the value by which to No
increase the line number when automatic line
numbering is activated.

Example: 1

INSPCFV

Indicates whether to use the inspection type No
C, F, V in HxGN EAM Mobile. Valid values are
YES or NO.

Example: NO

INSTCODE

Installation code. HxGN EAM uses it for
several internal checks. Do not change this
code. HxGN EAM will not function if you
modify this code.

Yes

Example: YD04O5VXVXY2

KEEPBOT

Keep boiler texts. A + value indicates HxGN
EAM will not overwrite user-adapted
boilertexts when you upgrade the system.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1423 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: +

KIOSKREP

This is the URL for the Kiosk Reports
http://reportserver:80/bi/v1/disp

No

KPISCOR

SQL score for KPI queries.

No

Example: 100

KPISLEEP

Enter, in days, how often the KPI driver
No
(KDRV) checks for data to process. Must be a
positive integer.

Example: 1

LDAPPATH

Enables the LDAP server component for
HxGN EAM.

No

Example: OFF

LDAPSERV

The URL identifying the location of the LDAP No
servlet.

Example: http://myserver.mycompany.com:
<http://myserver.mycompany.com
/%20%5Ch> 8080/oc4jldap/LDAPAuth

LGNCON

This code stores the login authentication
method used for the HxGN EAM Connector
(web services) users. Set to STD to use the

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1424 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

credential defined on user records within
EAM. Set to LDAP to use the credential
defined in the LDAP provider configured for
the EAM deployment. Set to EXT to use an
external authentication service configured for
the EAM deployment.

Example: STD

LGNDBR

This code stores the login authentication
No
method used for Databridge users. Set to
STD to use the credential defined on user
records within EAM. Set to LDAP to use the
credential defined in the LDAP provider
configured for the EAM deployment. Set to
EXT to use an external authentication service
configured for the EAM deployment.

Example: STD

LGNDISCL

Specifies the text displayed on the login
page. This message can include html tags.

No

LGNEAM

This code stores the login authentication
No
method used for EAM web users. Set to STD
to use the credential defined on user records
within EAM. Set to LDAP to use the
credential defined in the LDAP provider
configured for the EAM deployment. Set to
EXT to use an external authentication service
configured for the EAM deployment.

Example: STD

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1425 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

LGNLOGOL

Determines the image displayed on the login No
page. Specify a URL location of the image to
display it. Leave blank to use the default
image.

LGNMOB

This code stores the login authentication
No
method used for HxGN EAM Mobile users.
Set to STD to use the credential defined on
user records within EAM. Set to LDAP to use
the credential defined in the LDAP provider
configured for the EAM deployment. Set to
EXT to use an external authentication service
configured for the EAM deployment.

Example: STD

LOCALE

This code identifies the number format to use No
based on the geographic location of your
organization/enterprise. The setting for this
code specifies that HxGN EAM use the
geographic standard for the specified locale
regarding the use of decimals and commas in
numeric data for all numeric fields. Valid
values are NAMERICA, EUROPE, and ASI.
Use the credential defined on user records
within EAM.

Example: NAMERICA

MAILRCAP

Define number of retries for failed e-mails and No
push notifications.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1426 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: 3

MENUSECU

This code determines whether or not the user
can hyperlink to hidden menu items. Turn
OFF to allow hyperlinks to hidden menu
items.
Turn ON to prohibit hyperlinks to hidden
menu items.

Regardless of this parameter setting,
users are required to have screen
permissions set for (access) to hyper linking
to screens.

MFACLASS

Specify the full package Java class name of
the customer implementation for multi-factor
authentication.

No

There is no default value.

MOBDOCUL

Specify a suffix that will be appended to the No
document file name when uploaded from the
mobile device to the HxGN EAM server. This
is done to better ensure uniqueness and help
prevent files from being overwritten on
subsequent uploads. Valid values are
acceptable using comma separation. Default
is DATETIME.

Example: DATETIME

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1427 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

MOBGICIM

Specify the Permit to Work UDF field, text or
number type, that will be used to store total
number of customers impacted by a main
isolation.

No

MOBGICVI

Specify the Permit to Work UDF field, text or
number type, that will be used to store total
customer volume interrupted by a main
isolation

No

MOBGIHIM

Specify the Permit to Work UDF field, text or
number type, that will be used to store total
number of hydrants impacted by a main
isolation.

No

MOBGIMLR

Specify the main layer name. These features No
can be isolated. The layer name should exist
in the feature service specified by the
MOBGMAP parameter.

MOBGIMTD

Specify the task plan whose Isolation
Method check box is selected that will be
used to create all permit to work records for
main isolations.

MOBGIPMT

Specify the permit code that will be used as a No
template to create all permit to work records
for main isolations.

MOBGIPSW

Specify the standard work order code used to No
create the parent, repair work order for a
main isolation.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1428 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

MOBGIVLR

Specify the valve layer name. These features No
will be operated to isolate mains. The layer
name should exist in the feature service
specified by the MOBGMAP parameter.

MOBORG

This code indicates the HxGN EAM Mobile
organization downloading mode. Set
MOBORG to YES for multiple organization
mode, or NO for single organization mode.

No

Example: NO

MSRDWNCT

The maximum time, in Hours, before deleting No
a downloaded file generated by the Mobile
Sync Request process from the server.
Example: 6

MSRSTLCT

The maximum time, in Hours, before deleting
a file generated by the Mobile Sync Request
process from the server.

Example: 24

MULTIFAC

Set to ON to enable the ability to enter an
No
authentication code in addition to the
password on the login screen. Custom
configuration is required to enable this option.
Set to OFF to hide the additional field and
only require user name and password.

Example: OFF

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1429 of 2039

MULTIORG

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This code indicates whether MultiYes
organization Security (MOS) is activated. You
cannot turn off MOS.

Example: YES

OMBARFMT

This code indicates whether a code and
No
organization are separated with parentheses
in HxGN EAM Barcoding. Valid values are
YES or NO.

Example: NO

OPENMENU

This code indicates whether users open the No
main menu by hovering or clicking. Set to H
to default the system to open the menu dropdown when the user hovers the mouse over
the main menu bar. Set to C to default the
system to open the menu drop-down when
the user clicks on the main menu bar.
Navigation inside the menu defaults to hover
regardless of this setting.

Example: H

OURCOMP

Customer name that appears on reports.
Modify this code as necessary.

No

Example: Your company

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1430 of 2039

PASSMINL

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Indicates the minimum number of characters No
allowed for a system password.

Example: 6

PASSMAN

Indicates the minimum number of nonalphanumeric characters re- quired for a
password.

No

Example: 0

PASSMNLR

Indicates the minimum number of lowercase
characters required for a password.

No

Example: 0

PASSMNNB

Indicates the minimum number of numerical
characters required for a password.

No

Example: 0

PASSMNUP

Indicates the minimum number of uppercase No
characters required for a password.
Example: 0

PASSRSET

Determines if the Password Reset option will No
be displayed on the login screen. If enabled,
the system will require the user to enter a
valid User ID for which to reset the password.
If an email address is specified for the User

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1431 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

ID, then the user's password will be reset to a
random value and also set to expired. This
will require the user to change their password
as soon as they login using the system
generated password. This option will only
work for full EAM users, HxGN EAM
Requestor users and Mobile users.

Example: YES

PASSSAID

Indicates whether the User ID can be used as No
their password. Valid values are YES or NO.

Example: YES

PASSUPER

Indicates whether system allows mixed case No
for password verification. If set to YES, the
system does not use mixed case in password
verification. If set to NO, the system uses
mixed case in password verification.

Example: YES

PMFSNDEL

Indicates the number of days a PM
No
Forecasting session in which forecasting has
not been started or a WO Labor Scheduling
session in which labor has not been started
will be saved. Sessions where forecasting or
labor scheduling have begun will be saved
until the session is Canceled or Approved.

Example: 30

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1432 of 2039

PRMDSPLY

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Indicates the number of HxGN EAM Mobile
No
prompts displayed. If set to SINGLE, the
system displays HxGN EAM Mobile Prompt in
Single Field mode. If set to MULTIPLE, the
system displays HxGN EAM Mobile Prompt in
Multiple Fields mode.

Example: MULTIPLE

PMRVSIGN

This code indicates whether both electronic
signature and snapshot are required for PM
Revision Control.

No

ES = both electronic signature and snapshot
required

ER = only snapshot

PRODNAME

Name of the product installed. You can
modify this code as necessary.

No

Example: HxGN EAM

PRODUCTS

Name of the products used. Values are as
follows:

No

EXTSQL, If you are using HxGN EAM for
SQL Server only

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1433 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EXTORCL, If you are using HxGN EAM
(Oracle) only

D7I, If you are using the Forms interface only

BOTH, If you are using both Forms interface
and Extended interface

Example: D7I

QUICKDEF

This code sets the default value for the
Operator field on the Quick Filter portion of
the Search Bar and Dataspies. Set
QUICKDEF to B for Begins with and C for
Contains. Applies to text fields only.

No

Example: B

REFRSHLV

Set to YES to designate the system to refresh No
the data when users return to the List View
page from the Record View page or any other
tab. Set to NO to designate the system to not
refresh the List View page.

Example: YES

REPBATCH

This code indicates whether to print reports
on the server printer (YES) or on the client
printer (NO).

No

HxGN EAM always treats this

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1434 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

parameter as set to NO.

Example: NO

REPSERV

The name of the default Oracle report server. No
Do not use underscores (_) or numbers in the
name.

Example: rep78

REPSTOL

The amount of time in minutes a report is
kept in cache for reuse.

No

Example: 10

RMTMOUT

Time out setting for HxGN EAM Mobile Real- No
time web service request, (in seconds).

Example: 20

ROLESECU

Enables roles functionality. Set to OFF to turn
off roles functionality. Set to ON to enable
roles functionality, which allows the defining
of roles along with a user and Organization to
allow multiple user Groups per Organization.

S3BKTPTH

Define the Amazon S3 bucket path to where No
documents will be stored. It should follow the
following pattern: [region]bucketname/path
/to/shared/storage

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1435 of 2039

S3DBKPTH

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define the Amazon S3 bucket path for
Databridge to where documents will be
stored. It should follow the following pattern:
[region]

No

bucketname/path/to/shared/storage

S3PROF

Define Amazon S3 profile (access key
information) for accessing S3 storage.
Providing a value here will override the
default profile.

No

S3STOR

Set to ON to use Amazon S3 for document
storage instead of the HxGN EAM server.
Otherwise set to OFF.

No

Example: OFF

S3STORDM

No
Set to ON to use Amazon S3 to store
Databridge messages. Otherwise set to OFF.

Example: OFF

SAFEWARN

Equipment safety warning for HxGN EAM
Mobile.

No

See HxGN EAM Mobile documentation.

Example: NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1436 of 2039

SCNCACHL

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Controls whether a screen with caching
Enabled will open to the List View or to the
last tab selected prior to leaving the screen.
Set to ON to return to the List View. Set to
OFF to return to the last tab selected.

No

Example: OFF

SDATE

This code determines the transaction date
Yes
HxGN EAM uses for recording/approving a
physical inventory in the R5TRANSACTIONS
table and the R5TRANSLINES table. For
example, if you start your count on Monday
and finish it on Wednesday, this parameter
determines which date is recorded. If YES,
the system records the start date. If
NO,HxGN EAM uses the date the count is
approved.

Example: NO

SECUPWEP

Number of days in the password expiration
period. You can change this value.

No

Example: 30

SECUPWRP

Number of days before a user can reuse an No
expired password. You can change this value.

Example: 180

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1437 of 2039

SECUVIOL

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Number of consecutive password violations
that can occur before a user is locked out of
HxGN EAM. You can change this value. The
system administrator can also unlock the
user.

No

Example: 5

SESINTVL

Must be set to support multiple application
servers.

No

The value specified for this parameter
represents a number in minutes.

If a session remains inactive for the number
of minutes specified for this install parameter,
the system will kill the session.

The system actually doubles the
value specified for this parameter setting to
create a buffer to ensure that a valid session
is not killed.

Also, if a value of less than 5 is specified, the
system assumes a value of 5 minutes as the
setting for the parameter.

Example: 15

SHOWQURY

This code indicates whether to show the
No
query fields on grids by default. Set
SHOWQURY to YES to show the query fields

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1438 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

on grids by default, or set to NO to hide the
query fields on grids by default.

Example: NO

SPECJS

Set SPECJS to YES to use the tenant
specified language js file. Set SP ECJS to
NO to use the common language js file.

Yes

Example: NO

SRDFLTID

Service Request Portal Default ID. Enter the
Portal ID that will be used for guests. This
Portal ID must have an existing contact
information record.

No

STYLECD

Identifies the custom web style sheet and
associated images.

No

Example: default

TABSAVE

Set TABSAVE to INSERT to return to Insert
Mode after modifying a record on List/Detail
tabs. Set TABSAVE to UPDATE to stay in
Update Mode after modifying a record.

No

Example: INSERT

TRANDESC

Transaction description. Changing the value
does not affect existing data.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1439 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: Transaction

UCOLANG

Language code of default user code. Do not
change this setting once in use.

Yes

Example: EN

UPLNXS

This code identifies a separate index
tablespace for all conversion data uploaded.

No

UPLTBS

This code identifies a separate data
tablespace for all conversion data uploaded.

No

USEIMAGE

This code prevents using the Icon Path or
Image Path on screens across the
application.

If set to YES, the Icon Image field and
Upload Image button are the only methods
for associating images.

When this parameter is set to YES
and Icon is set to Other, the record cannot be
updated until Icon is updated.

If set to NO, either field can be used.

WOBARFMT

This code indicates whether work order
barcodes are printed in WO#ACT format.
Valid values are YES or NO.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1440 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: NO

WMWARN

If set to NO, the system will check the
No
Associations tab of the Workspace Move
for any additions or deletions of Asset, Parts,
Employees, or changes in Part quantity. The
system will refresh the Associations tab if
any changes are found when performing a
status change from any open or approved
status to any open or approved status. If set
to YES, the system will not perform this
check.

Example: NO

WSGRIDSZ

This code indicates the maximum number of
rows returned per block for web service grid.

No

Example: 10000

XFRMOPTN

To set the X-FRAME-OPTIONS http header,
set this install parameter to one of the
following values: DENY, SAMEORIGIN, or
ALLOW-FROM some url. Setting this value
protects against certain security
vulnerabilities (clickjacking) by preventing
HxGN EAM from running in an iframe.

No

Example: Null (disabled)

XITENANT

The tenant to use when communicating to
other Infor applications inside of Ming.le Xi.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1441 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The value is typically set to "infor".

HxGN EAM parameters
HxGN EAM parameters are related only to HxGN EAM and do not affect HxGN EAM (Oracle
Forms). Set values for HxGN EAM parameters according to the following table.
For more information on setting values for parameters, see Defining installation parameters.

Code

Description

Fixed

ANALOG

Analytics logging level. Valid values are:
ERROR, WARN, INFO, or DEBUG.

No

ANALOGKP

Number of days to keep Analytics server log
records.

No

Example: 7

ANASYNKP

Number of days to keep Analytics
synchronization records.

No

Example: 180

AUTOSAVE

This code indicates whether to save work
No
automatically when moving from tab to tab in
HxGN EAM. Valid values are YES and NO. If
set to NO, then HxGN EAM displays a
message prompting the user to save their
work when moving from tab to tab.

Example: YES

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1442 of 2039

CANCSTAT

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This code indicates the status used by HxGN No
EAM when a work order is canceled. You can
choose from any equivalent user statuses.

Example: CANC

DBBUFSIZ

Cache size for grid query results.

No

Example: 500

DWLABOR

Indicates whether the data warehouse ETL
driver will populate the Booked Labor hours
and Available Labor data mart. Valid values
are ON and OFF.

No

DWMATL

Indicates whether the data warehouse ETL
driver will populate the Daily Material
transactions data mart. Valid values are ON
and OFF.

No

DWORDERS

Indicates whether the data warehouse ETL
driver will populate the Purchase orders and
order lines data mart. Valid values are ON
and OFF.

No

DWPARTS

Indicates whether the data warehouse ETL
No
driver will populate the Parts and Stores daily
values data mart. Valid values are ON and
OFF.

DWSTATUS

Indicates whether the data warehouse ETL
No
driver will populate the Daily Status Changes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1443 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

data mart. Valid values are ON and OFF.

DWWARNTY

Indicates whether the data warehouse ETL
driver will populate the Warranty claims
accumulating values data mart. Valid values
are ON and OFF.

No

DWWORK

Indicates whether the data warehouse ETL
driver will populate the Work orders
accumulating and daily values data mart.
Valid values are ON and OFF.

No

EQUIPSTR

Define which fields will display in equipment No
structure. Valid values are B, C, or D. Specify
B to display both the code and description.
Specify C to display only the code. Specify D
to display only the description.

REJSTAT

This code indicates the status used by HxGN No
EAM when a work request is rejected. You
can choose from any equivalent user
statuses.

Example: REJ

REPCLEAN

Specifies how long in minutes that report
temporary data will remain.

No

Example: 240

REPORTMX

The maximum number of records that can be No
returned to the work order, requisition, and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1444 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

purchase order reports in HxGN EAM without
causing an error.

Example: 100

REPPURGE

This code indicates the amount of time (in
No
minutes) to keep an HxGN EAM report output
file on the server before deleting it.

Example: 1440

RTIMEOUT

This code indicates the amount of time (in
seconds) to wait for a report to finish
executing before sending it to the report
queue.

No

Example: 120

SHOWLOT

Determines whether lots are used for stock
No
information for parts in HxGN EAM. The
default setting for SHOWLOT is Y. If
SHOWLOT is set to N, Extended disables the
Lot field and it is hidden on forms.

SRQREP

This code indicates the number of days to
search for similar re- quests. The system
flags similar services requests that are
repeated.

No

Example: 5

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1445 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

WHSLEEP

This code indicates the time increment (in
hours) between each data warehouse ETL
procedure update. The default value is 24.

No

WHSTART

This code indicates the specific time at which No
to run the data warehouse ETL update
(based on the server time). Enter in the
format HH:MM, where HH is 24 hour time,
MM is minutes. The default value is 2:00
(2AM).

WSLSUPP

Contains a comma separated list of
supported Language strings that are
encrypted.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1446 of 2039

WTIMEOUT

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The value specified for this parameter
No
indicates the length of time (in minutes) that
the client can remain idle/inactive before the
server terminates the user’s session for both
HxGN EAM (Oracle Forms) and HxGN EAM.
After the server terminates the session in
HxGN EAM (Oracle Forms), the system
displays a message indicating that the user’s
session is being terminated. After
acknowledging the message, the server shuts
down the HxGN EAM application.
After the server terminates the session in
HxGN EAM, the form on which the user was
working is still displayed. However, when the
user tries again to use the system, the
system displays a message and returns to
the login screen.
Example: 15

Materials parameters
Materials parameters are related to assets, inventory, and pricing features that must be set for
the features in the application to work properly.
Set values for materials parameters according to the following table.

Code

Description

Fixed

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1447 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

ASSETASS

This code indicates whether to associate an
asset with parts tracked by asset during
receipts (R) or during creation of a purchase
order (P).

No

AUTOPART

This code determines whether the system
automatically updates the Parts Associated
list.

No

Update the Parts Associated list for approved
lines on a receipt. If AUTOPART is set to
AUTO, the system verifies whether the
received part is associated with an
equipment’s Parts Associated list when a
purchase order receipt is approved for a work
order. If the received part is not associated
with the equipment’s Parts Associated list, the
system adds the part to the list using the
quantity of the transaction as the Parts
Associated quantity.

If the part is already associated on the Parts
Associated list, then the system updates the
quantity of the part on the Parts Associated
list to the transaction quantity if the
transaction quantity is greater than the
existing quantity on the Parts Associated list.
If the transaction quantity is not greater, then
the system does not make any updates. Also
applies to issues, not just receipts.

AUTOPNUM

This code indicates whether the system
automatically generates part numbers.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1448 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: NO

AUTOSTOK

This code indicates whether the system
automatically creates records in tables
R5STOCK and R5INSTOCK (+) for data
collection.

No

Example: Yes

DEFLDTIM

Default item lead time (in days) to use for
calculation of Requisition Requested Before
date and Purchase Order Due Date.

No

DEFSTOCK

This code indicates whether the stock
No
management fields (such as reorder level,
min/max, order level, and so forth) should be
copied from the highest-level parent store to
the child store when a stock record is created
in the child store.

Example: YES

DEFRQTP

Determines the default line type for
No
requisitions. Specify a user status equivalent
to the system status of PS (PS Stock Parts),
PD (Direct Purchase), or RE (External
Repair) for the PLTP entity. The line type is
automatically defaulted to the specified user
status.

If DEFRQTP is null or if you enter an invalid
value, the line type of requisitions is
automatically defaulted to the system status

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1449 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

of PS.

DEFUOM

Base unit of measure for transactions, such
as store issues and returns. Changing this
default will not affect existing data. However,
using EA (Each) or PEC (Piece, such as
individual part) as the base unit of measure
because of the part-by-asset mechanism is
strongly recommended.

No

Example: EA

DELTMATL

Delete materials list. Valid values are Y and No
N. Y implies that the system will remove the
temporary material lists upon completion of
the related work order. Y also indicates that
after completion, the estimated material costs
will no longer include data from the temporary
material lists. N implies that the system will
not remove the temporary material lists.

Example: Y

ENABLEOS

URL for the OneSource server.

No

IPSUPP

Determines the value of the Part Org. when a No
new part is created via the iProcure interface.
Set to H for the Part Org. to come from the
Requisition or PO header. Set to S for the
Part Org. to come from the Supplier. Set to C
to use the common org specified in the
IPSUPPC install parameter.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1450 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: H

LOTNRG

Lot number generation. This code indicates
No
how HxGN EAM should generate lot
numbers. Valid values are T (each receipt), P
(only parts that are tracked by lot), or - (no lot
numbers; lot number * is always used). It is
possible to change this parameter in a live
installation; however, determining a lotnumbering policy before entering data is
strongly recommended. Changing the value
does not affect existing data.

Example: P

MOBSHWRV

Specify if mobile will do a blind receive of
parts on the Active Lines for PO Receipt.
Specify YES to show the expected Receipt
Quantity. Specify NO to hide the Receipt
Quantity.

No

OBSTCASC

This code indicates whether parent
No
equipment status changes of I (Installed) or D
(Withdrawn) will be cascaded to the child
equipment. If set to A, parent equipment
status changes are cascaded to all children. If
set to D, only parent equipment status
changes are cascaded to dependent children.

OSTAXUSR

Value for the OneSource username.

OSTAXPWD

Value for the OneSource Password. The user No
will key in the OneSource user password.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1451 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The user will then click Save and the system
will encrypt the entered value.

OVERRECV

Indicates whether you can receive more parts No
than the number of parts originally ordered. If
set to YES, you can receive more parts than
the number ordered. If set to NO, you cannot
receive more parts than the number originally
ordered.

DRCPTTO

This code indicates whether the system
receives direct on-dock materials directly to
stores or against a work order.

No

Example: STORE

PICKONCE

This code indicates whether the system can
issue multiple work orders against the same
pick list.

No

For example, if this parameter is set to YES
and you have a pick list associated with a
work order and the pick list includes four
items for which you only issue one item for
the pick list, you can no longer issue items
against that pick list again. If the parameter is
set to NO, you can still issue against the
remaining three items on the pick list.

PLNDRQPO

This code indicates whether requisitions and
unapproved purchase order totals are
included in cost summaries for project
reports. If the value is ON, then the system
includes the cost of requisitions or

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1452 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

unapproved purchase orders in the
calculation of the total displayed in Planned
throughout the system, as well as estimated
work order costs that are not yet linked to a
requisition or purchase order.

If the value is OFF, the system does not
include the cost of requisitions or unapproved
purchase orders in the calculation of the total
displayed in Planned throughout the system.
The value for Planned is calculated based
only on estimated work order costs.

Purchase orders with Approved status are
displayed in On Order throughout the system
until they are Received. However, after
purchase orders are received, the purchase
order costs are displayed as Actual and used
in the calculation of Estimate to Complete.

The system calculates Estimate to
Complete for project costs based on the
following formula:

Current Estimate to Complete – (Planned +
Actual)

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1453 of 2039

POSTALLR

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Auto status for the DOST entity for full PO
No
receipts. Specify a user status equivalent to
the system status A (Approved) for the DOST
entity, and the system automatically changes
the purchase order status to the specified
value when all the lines on the purchase
order are fully received or canceled.

If the purchase order header status is already
set to the status defined in this parameter,
then the system does not modify the
purchase order status.

If you have set the POSTALLR
parameter, then the processing rules
associated with the POSTALLR parameter
overrides the rules for the POSTRECV
parameter.

POSTRECV

Auto status for the DOST entity for PO
No
receipts. Specify a user status equivalent to
the system status A (Approved) for the DOST
entity, and the system automatically changes
the purchase order status to the specified
value when one or more lines on the
purchase order are partially received.

When a RECV transaction is approved for a
part associated to a purchase order, the
system updates the purchase order header
status to the specified status.

If the purchase order header status is already

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1454 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

set to the status defined in this parameter,
then the system does not modify the
purchase order status.

If you have set the POSTALLR
parameter, then the processing rules
associated with the POSTALLR parameter
override the rules for the POSTRECV
parameter.

Example: A

PRICELEV

Price level. This code indicates whether
Yes
prices must be kept at part level (same part
prices for all stores) or at store level (part can
have different prices in different stores). Valid
values are P and S. You cannot change this
setting once in use.

PRICETIM

Pricing updates. This code determines when No
the system updates average unit price and
last purchase price. Valid values are I
(calculate new price at invoice approval) or R
(calculate new price at receiving approval on
basis of PO prices.)
Inconsistencies in data will occur if you
change this value. After a change, some
prices will still be based on the old
mechanism while others will be based on the
new mechanism. Over time (usually the
amount of time required for a complete
inventory turnover), a shift will take place
from the old mechanism to the new.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1455 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If the price type of a stock record in the
R5STOCK table is LIFO or FIFO, HxGN EAM
calculates pricing updates when you approve
a receipt regardless of the setting of this
parameter. However, if the setting of this
parameter is I, HxGN EAM calculates pricing
updates again when you approve an invoice
and/or credit/debit note.
This parameter is not fixed however
changing this setting is strongly discouraged.
Example: R

PRICETYP

This code determines the default value for
Price Type when creating stores and
indicates the manner in which the system
prices storeroom materials at the store level.

No

Valid values are A for Average price, FIFO for
First in first out, L for Last price, LIF O for
Last in first out, and S for Standard price.
LIFO or FIFO pricing is a time-based pricing
method; therefore, you should only set
PRICETYP to FIFO or LIFO on the store
record if you have selected to keep prices at
store level. (See PRICELEV earlier in this
section.)
This parameter is not fixed however
changing the price type setting because
inconsistencies in data may occur is strongly
discouraged. See the PRICETIM parameter.
Example: A

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1456 of 2039

PROJTRCK

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Budget tracking for projects. This code
No
indicates whether Cost Area, Cost Center,
and Code of Accounts are displayed and
enabled on the Budgets tab of the Project
form. Cost Area, Cost Center, and Code of
Accounts enable you to track project costs
and budgets more precisely by associating
cost areas, cost centers, and codes of
accounts with budget codes, as well as
enabling project and financial managers to
access more detailed information about
project budgets on project reports.
Cost Area, Cost Center, and Code of
Accounts are linked to the PRCA (Cost
areas), PRCC (Cost codes), and PCOA
(Code of accounts) entities. You can define
cost areas, cost codes, and codes of
accounts as user codes as necessary based
on your project budget tracking preferences
on the System Codes form.
Example: ON

RECVAUTO

This code indicates whether the system
No
should automatically populate the quantity to
receive on purchase order receipts. If
RECVAUTO is set to YES, the system
automatically populates the Receipt Qty.
(UOM) on the Active Lines page of the PO
Receipts form with the outstanding quantity
for each line on a purchase order receipt. If
RECVAUTO is set to NO, a value must be
manually entered for the receipt quantity for
each line on the receipt.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1457 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: YES

REQDESC

Default requisition description. Changing this No
value does not affect existing data.

Example: Requisition

RPPRCCAL

This code indicates whether price
calculations should be performed when
receiving internally repaired spare parts.

No

Example: NO

RQSTALLR

No
Auto-status for the RQST entity for full PO
receipts. Specify a user status equivalent to
the system status A (Approved), and the
system automatically changes the requisition
status to the specified value when all lines
are fully received or canceled for a PO
receipt.

When a RECV transaction is approved for a
part associated to a purchase requisition via
a purchase order (the system does not
consider receipts for store to store
requisitions) and all of the requisition lines on
the requisition are fully received or canceled,
then the system updates the requisition
header status to the specified status.

If the requisition header status is already set
to the value defined by this parameter, then

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1458 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the system does not modify the status.
Likewise, if all the lines on a requisition are
canceled and none of the lines have been
received, then the system does not consider
the setting of this parameter.

RQSTRECV

Auto-status for the RQST entity for PO
No
receipts. Specify a user status equivalent to
the system status A (Approved), and the
system automatically changes the requisition
status to the specified value when one ore
more lines are partially received for a PO
receipt.

When a RECV transaction is approved for a
part associated to a purchase requisition via
a purchase order (the system does not
consider receipts for store to store
requisitions), then the system updates the
requisition header status to the specified
status.

If the requisition header status is already set
to the value defined by this parameter, then
the system does not modify the status.
Likewise, if all the lines on a requisition are
canceled and none of the lines have been
received, then the system does not consider
the setting of this parameter.

Example: A

RRISSWAR

This code indicates whether HxGN EAM
No
should generate a warning message to check

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1459 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

whether you need to create a work order for a
spare that has failed when you issue a
repairable spare part on the Issue/Return
Parts issues form.

Example: YES

RTNANY

The RTNANY parameter indicates whether
you can return a greater quantity of apart
than the original issue quantity of the part,
and/or whether or not the system allows you
to return a part to a different store than the
store from which it was issued.

No

If RTNANY is set to YES, you return any
quantity of any parts to any store for which
there is a part record on the Stores tab of the
Parts form (the system only requires that a
part record exists for the part in the store, not
that a bin-stock record exists for the part in
the store).
If RTNANY is set to NO, you cannot return a
greater quantity of a part than the original
issue quantity. The system only allows you to
return the quantity of the part that was
originally issued to that entity to the same
store, bin, and lot.
When issuing a part, you issue to an entity
(work order, equipment, etc.) from a store.
When returning a part, you return from an
entity (work order, equipment, etc.) to a store.
For example, if RTNANY is set to NO and if
you issue 20 parts to a work order for a piece
of equipment on the work order, you can only

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1460 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

return those parts from the work order. You
cannot return the part directly from the
equipment. The RTNANY parameter
indicates whether you can return a greater
quantity of a part than the original issue
quantity of the part.
If RTNANY is set to YES, you can return a
greater quantity of a part than the original
issue quantity. If RTNANY is set to NO, you
cannot return a greater quantity of a part than
the original issue quantity.

SHOWQTY

This code indicates whether to show the
expected quantity for HxGN EAM Mobile
physical inventory.

No

Example: NO

STTKDISC

Physical inventory discrepancies. This code
indicates how the system handles physical

No

inventory discrepancies for parts tracked by
asset when signing off physical inventories on
the Physical Inventory form.
Valid values are 1, 2, or 3, with 2 being the
default value. You can change this value.
If the value is 1, the system ignores physical
inventory discrepancies for parts tracked by
asset. If the value is 2, the system ignores
physical inventory discrepancies for parts
tracked by asset, but prints the discrepancies
on the sign-off document. If the value is 3, the
system disables signing off stock-takes for
parts tracked by asset.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1461 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Miscellaneous parameters
Miscellaneous parameters affect settings that are not specific to any module. Set values for
miscellaneous parameters according to the following table.

Code

~ADRV~

Description

Object audit control row

Example

RUNNING 10 JUNE

Fixed

No

2004 14:12

~BDRV0~

Batch interface error driver

RUNNING 10 JUNE
2004 14:12

No

~BDRV1~

Batch interface driver

RUNNING 10 JUNE
2004 14:12

No

~KDRV~

KPI scores

RUNNING 10 JUNE
2004 14:12

No

~MDRV~

Mail data driver

RUNNING 10 JUNE
2004 14:12

No

~TDRV0~

Tracking data error driver

RUNNING 10 JUNE
2004 14:12

No

~TDRV1~

Tracking data driver 1

RUNNING 10 JUNE
2004 14:12

No

Purchasing parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1462 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Purchasing parameters are related to purchasing and requisitions that must be set for the
features of the application to work properly.
Set values for purchasing parameters according to the following table.

Code

Description

Fixed

CNVIPUOM

If enabled (ON), the system will look up the
OFF
iProcure UOM in the EAM Alternate UOM
table and uses the associated EAM UOM for
that record to populate the UOM on the Part
record. If the iProcure UOM is not defined as
an Alternate UOM for any UOM in EAM, the
system will use the value from iProcure.

DEFPOTP

Determines the default line type for purchase No
orders. Specify a user status equivalent to the
system status of PS (Stock Parts) or PD
(Direct Purchase) for the PLTP entity. The
system automatically defaults the line type of
purchase orders to the specified user status.

If DEFPOTP is null or if you enter an invalid
value, the system automatically defaults the
line type of purchase orders to the system
status of PS.

EXRTUPDT

Manual exchange rate update. Setting this
parameter to YES will enable users to
manually enter exchange rate fields.

No

EXTCHG

Include adjusted the system automatically
includes adjusted charges, such as a
discount or an additional charge, when

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1463 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

entering information on the Extra
charges/Discounts dialog box.
If the value is Y, the system automatically
selects Include for all the items on the Extra
charges/Discounts dialog box and does not
allow you to clear it.
If the value is N, the system automatically
clears Include for all the items on the Extra
charges/Discounts dialog box and does not
allow you to select it.
If the value is M, the system automatically
clears Include for all the items on the Extra
charges/Discounts dialog box and enables
you to select or clear it as necessary.

INCREDIT

Updates part price for stock for credit and
debit notes. This code indicates how the
system handles updating part prices for approved credit and debit notes. Valid values
are O (Off), P (Partial), or F (Full), with O
being the default value. You can change this
value.

Yes

If the Value is O, the system does not update
part prices upon approval of a credit or debit
note.
If the Value is P, the system applies the credit
amount in the calculation of Average Price for
a part upon approval of a credit note. When
the credit amount is greater than the value of
the part in stock, the system applies a portion
of the value of the credit amount, up to the
value of the part in stock, in the calculation of
the average price. By setting the value to P,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1464 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the calculation of the average price might
result in an average price of 0 for a part, but it
also ensures that the average price cannot be
less than 0. The remaining value of the credit
amount that is not used in the calculation of
the average price is stored as a Credit
Balance for the part in stock.
If you are using LIFO/FIFO as your pricing
method, the system applies credit amounts
similarly to the manner it does if the setting is
P regardless of the setting you specify for this
parameter; however, HxGN EAM stores the
unused credit amount in the IVL_LOST
CREDIT column of the R5INVOICELINES
table, rather than storing the credit amount as
a Credit Balance for the part in stock.
If the value is F, the system applies the credit
amount in the calculation of Average Price for
a part upon approval of a credit note when
the credit amount is less than the value of the
part in stock. Setting the value to F ensures
that the calculation of the average price for a
part can never result in a value of 0.

INVADAYS

This code indicates the number of days after
completion that invoice allocations can be
applied to a work order.

No

Example: 60

INVALLOC

Set INVALLOC to YES to track unallocated
invoice differences. Set INVALLOC to NO to
apply all invoice differences to the stock
record.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1465 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: NO

INVDESC

Invoice description. Changing the value does No
not affect existing data.

Example: Invoice

INVMETH

This code indicates the default inventory
No
replenishment method to use for maintaining
stock levels. Valid values are (M) for Min/Max,
(-) for Reorder level, or (+) for On demand.
The default setting for this parameter is
Reorder level.

INVUPCAT

This code indicates whether the supplier’s
catalog will be updated upon approval of an
invoice.

No

Example: NO

IPSUPPC

Specify an existing common org that should No
be used as the Part Org when a new part is
created via the iProcure interface. This value
will only be used when the IPSUPP install
parameter is set to C.

LIMITLEV

Limit level. This code indicates if the system No
should check the value for orders/requisitions
on the header level (H) or line level (L).
Changing the value does not affect existing
data.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1466 of 2039

MATCHAPP

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Automatic approval of matched invoices. This No
code indicates whether the system
automatically approves invoices for which the
cost of all invoice lines has been matched
with the cost of the purchase order lines
associated with the invoice lines within range
of tolerance specified for Match Tolerance
Absolute or Match Tolerance % on the
Organization form.

If the value is set to YES, the system
automatically assigns A, Approved status for
invoices for which all invoice lines have been
matched with associated purchase order lines
within the specified range of tolerance. If the
value is NO, then all invoices must be
manually approved.
The MATCHTOL installation
parameter is no longer active, because users
no longer enter a voucher total. Instead, the
voucher total is now calculated based on the
total invoice costs.
Example: 0

POCURR

This code indicates whether the system
allows multi-currency order lines.

No

Example: YES

PORDDESC

Purchase order description. Changing the
value does not affect existing data.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1467 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: Order

RCPTCURR

This code indicates which exchange rate the
system uses for receipt or return of goods.
PO= exchange rate of purchase order;
RCPT= the active exchange at time of
receipt/return transaction approval.

No

Example: PO

URL parameters
URL parameters designate locations and directories for schemas, servlets, documents, and
other resources that must be set for many of the add-ons and features to work properly.
Set values for URL parameters according to the table.

Code

DISCSCH

Description

The schema connect string for Discoverer.

Fixed

No

Example: myoracleuser/ mypassword@
mydatabase

DISCVURL

The URL of the Discoverer viewer.

No

Example: http://myserver.mycompany.com
/discoverer/viewer
<http://myserver.mycompany.com/discoverer
/viewer%20%5Ch>

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1468 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

OPIMGURL

This install parameter is the absolute URL of No
the directory where the OPS setup stores the
images.

RPTDOCUP

No
Document upload path for Crystal Clear
Reporting. The value specified identifies the
path from the Crystal Clear Report Server to
the document upload directory. Must be a
valid URL and can be either an http:// or file://
protocol.

Example: http://mycompany.
<http://mycompany/%20%5Ch>
myserver.com/documents/PDFS

SMTPSEND

Name of the mail sender, which is used in
replying to messages.
Example: mailid@yourcompany.com

No

SMTPSERV

SMTP mail server.
Example: mail.yourcompany.com

No

WDCUPURL

No
URL of the web data collection upload file
servlet.
Example: http://myserver.mycompany.com
/servlet/WscanUpload
<http://myserver.mycompany.com/servlet
/wscanupload%20%5Ch>

Work parameters
Set parameters for the features of the Work module to work properly.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1469 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work parameters are related to work orders, budgets, and project management features that
must be set for the features of the application to work properly.
Set values for work parameters according to the following table.

Code

Description

Fixed

@WOPTDET

Whether to export work order part with more No
details in outbound Maintenance Order BOD.
If set to Y, the BOD will detail items allocated
for a work order by store and if the parts are
planned, reserved, or direct purchase. If set
to N, the BOD will summarize the parts for
the work order.

7ISCDKEY

HxGN EAM Caller Login for Service
Requests CD key.

AUTODMEC

This code determines whether the Remove
Equipment hyperlink on the Equipment
page of the Work Orders form breaks the
association between the parent work order
and a multiple equipment child work order or
whether the system also deletes the multiple
equipment child work order.

No

Valid values are Y or N. By default the
parameter is set to Y, which means that the
system deletes the related multiple
equipment child records.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1470 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

AUTOPMCL

This code indicates whether to automatically No
close all released minor PMs at release of the
major PMs (YES/NO).

BOOKDATE

Indicates whether to enforce date constraints No
when booking hours. If set to OFF, the
system ignores the constraints. If set to ON,
the system enforces the constraints.

Setting this parameter OFF may result in
inconsistencies within your booked hours
data.

Setting BOOKDATE to OFF enables you to
book labor hours for a date that is earlier than
Date reported. By enabling you to book the
hours without any date restrictions based on
the Date reported field, you can leave the
value for Date reported as is and still book
hours for work that has already been
completed.

BOOPLAN

Booking hours. Valid values are ON and OFF. No
When booking hours, if the value is ON, the
system gets the trade rate from the activity on
which hours are booked. If the value is OFF,
the system gets the rate from the employee
table. Changing this value will not affect
existing data. If you change this parameter
and open work orders exist on which hours
have already been booked, inconsistencies
will arise. Close work orders before changing

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1471 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

BOOPLAN.

CALSTD

Determines if calibration standards that have No
overdue PM work orders can be used to
perform a calibration.

If CALSTD is set to YES, equipment with
overdue PM work orders are available for
selection as a calibration standard.

If CALSTD is set to NO, equipment with
overdue PM work orders are not available for
selection as a calibration standard.

CASCLOC

Cascade equipment Location changes to PM No
equipment records. If set to YES cascade
changes. If set to NO, do not cascade
changes.

CLPBWOST

This parameter identifies the work order
No
status after checklist Performed By is signed.

Example: WCMP

CLRBWOST

This parameter identifies the work order
status after checklist Reviewed By is signed.

No

Example: COMP

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1472 of 2039

CLRRWOST

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This parameter identifies the work order
status after checklist Performed By is
rejected.

No

Example: INPR

COMDAYS

Number of days during which you can book
hours on closed work orders. Infor
recommends a minimum value of 1.

No

Changing the value will not affect existing
data.

Example: 14

COPTMKEY

Constraint Optimizer server API key

No

COPTMURL

Constraint Optimizer server URL

No

COVDUPAC

This code indicates whether the system
No
allows multiple active warranties. If set to Yes
(+), more than one active warranty on a
certain equipment can be specified. If set to
No(-), only one active warranty on a certain
equipment can be specified.

Example: *

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1473 of 2039

COVDURUP

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This code indicates whether the duration
No
fields are display-only. If set to Yes (+), the
duration fields can be entered manually. If set
to No (-), the duration fields are display-only.

Example: +

DSCHAVAI

Number of days from current date used to
No
calculate labor availability in daily scheduling.

Example: 7

DUPCHECK

If code is set to ON, the system checks for
duplicate and repeated service requests.

No

EVTCASCD

Event cascade. This code indicates whether No
changing a parent work order’s status to
Closed or Canceled causes the status of child
work orders to also change.

Example: N

INRVCTRL

This code indicates whether Revision control No
is activated for inspections.

Example: NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1474 of 2039

INSWOST

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This code identifies the status used to create No
work orders from inspection forms. You can
choose user codes equivalent to type R
(Released).

Example: L

ISSDAYS

Issue days. This code indicates the number
of days for which issues can be made after
you close a work order. Valid values are any
non-negative numbers. Changing the value
will not affect existing data.

No

Example: 0

JTAUTH

This code indicates whether work order type
authorization is activated. Work order type
authorization limits which users can update,
insert, or delete work orders based on the

No

type of work order.

Example: NO

NPRDAYS

Nonproductive days. This code indicates the
number of days for which you can book past
nonproductive hours, which is labor
performed without a work order.

No

This parameter may interfere with
closed periods data. Changing the value will
not affect existing data.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1475 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: 14

PLANLEV

This code determines the level at which
No
planning will be performed. If JOB is selected
then planning can only be done at the job
level. If TASK is selected then planning can
only be done at the task level. If EITHER then
planning can be done on either tasks or jobs.

PMNEST

Indicates whether to enable the following PM No
nesting enhancements. Valid values are YES
or NO.

• If YES is selected:

1. The system adjusts the due date
forward for nested, more frequent work
orders with a status of Awaiting release
or Bypassed whenever a work order is
Completed.
2. The system adjusts the due date
forward for more frequent PM work
orders when attempting to release the
work order if it is nested with a
Completed less frequent work order.

• If NO is selected:

1. The system adjusts the due date
forward for nested, more frequent work
orders with a status of Bypassed
whenever a work order is completed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1476 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. The system changes the status of more
frequent PM work orders to Released
when attempting to release the work
order and it is nested with a Completed
less frequent work order.

PMCRPAST

This code indicates whether the system can No
generate new fixed PM or duplicate PM work
orders with a due date in the past. Valid
values are YES and NO. The default setting
is NO.

If the value is set to YES, the system creates
the next PM work order with a due date that
reflects the calculated work order due date
and the PM frequency, even if the next due
date is in the past. If the value is NO, the
system always creates the PM work order
with a future due date.

PMRVCAPP

PM Revision Control. This code indicates
whether you can create a new revision only
from an approved revision.

No

Example: NO

PMRVCDEP

PM Revision Control. This code indicates
whether components of a PM depend on the
PM itself.

No

Example: NO

PMRVCRES

PM Revision Control. This code indicates
whether users can approve lines only from

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1477 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

their own departments.

Example: YES

PMRVCTRL

PM Revision Control. This code indicates
whether PM Revision Control is activated.

No

Example: NO

PMWODATE

This code indicates the starting date used
No
when calculating the next due date of a
variable PM work order. Set to C for
completion date, PB for calibration Performed
By date, or RB for calibration Reviewed By
date.

Example: C

PPMSTAT

PM Status. This code indicates the status of a No
PM work order when generated from a PM
schedule. Valid values are A for Awaiting
Release and R for Released. Changing the
value will not affect existing data.

PROJWOST

This code identifies the status used to create No
work orders on the Project form.

Example: L

REOPENPM

Reopen PMs. This code indicates whether a
PM work order can be reopened.

No

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1478 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Example: NO

REQDAYS

Number of days after completing a work order No
that a requisition can be created against it.

Example: -999

RSPCOMP

Indicates whether to display the Qty.
No
Completed on work orders for internally
repaired repairable spare parts. If set to NO,
the system does not display Qty. Completed.
If set to YES, the system displays Qty.
Completed and restricts internal repair
receipts to completed repairs.

RTNDAYS

Return days. This code indicates the number No
of days that parts can be returned to the store
after the work order has been closed. Valid
values are any non-negative numbers. Note
that this parameter may interfere with closed
periods data.
Changing the value will not affect existing
data.

Example: 14

SCHPAST

Set SCHPAST to YES to allow scheduling in
the past. Set SCH PAST to NO to prevent
scheduling in the past.

No

Example: NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1479 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

SCHSTAT

The user status of a work order after you
have scheduled an activity. You can select
any status.

No

SHOWJOB

No
This code determines whether job plan
information is visible in the product. If YES
then the Job Plan screen, tabs, and fields will
be visible in the product. If NO then this
information will not be visible. The default
value is NO.

SRCLOSE

This code indicates whether to automatically
close an associated service request when a
work order is closed. Valid values are YES
and NO.

TOOLDAYS

This code identifies the number of days to
No
update tool usage costs after completion of a
work order.

No

Example: 3

UPWOMATL

Determines if the work order planned parts
No
list is updated to include direct requisition and
PO line parts if they are not already planned.
If N, the work order planned parts list is not
updated. If Y, the work order planned parts
list is updated. If P, choose whether the work
order planned parts list gets updated as lines
are added to requisitions and POs. If A, the
planned parts list is updated only after the
line is approved.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1480 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

VTTAUTH

Determines whether the system uses vehicle No
ticket type authorization. Valid values are ON
and OFF.

WFFTAUTH

Comments code. The system uses this code
to determine who has authority to change
comments in the Comments grid for work
orders on the (WXDONE) form. If the
installation parameter is set to NO, all users
can change comments; if the installation
parameter is set to YES, only users who can
reopen work orders have permission to
change comments.

WOCLPOUT

This code indicates whether a work order can No
be closed if purchase requisitions and
purchase orders are still outstanding. If set to
YES, work orders with outstanding
requisitions and purchase orders may be
closed.

No

This parameter may affect purchase
order generation if you allow work orders to
be closed for which there are existing open
requisitions.

WOOSKEY

The API key for the Constraint Optimizer that
is used to dispatch and sequence EAM work
order activities. This key is used with the URL
specified in the installation parameter
WOOSURL to connect to the Constraint
Optimizer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1481 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

WOOSURL

The URL for the Constraint Optimizer used to No
dispatch and sequence EAM work order
activities.

WOQUAL

No
Qualification enforcement for work. Valid
values are ON and OFF. When scheduling
work, if the value is ON, the system
determines whether an employee is eligible to
perform work by comparing the qualifications
associated with a work order activity with the
qualifications associated with employees on
the Employees form. The system enables you
to assign any employee with the necessary
qualifications/training to perform the work.

When scheduling work, if the value is OFF,
the system does not check qualifications for
work scheduling, and any authorized users
can perform work regardless of any
qualifications associated with work order
activities.

WORKDAY

Work day hours. This code indicates the
No
default number of hours in a working day. The
system uses this value on the Activities tab
of the Work Orders form to calculate the
required number of people when an
estimated number of hours and the duration
is specified. Changing the value will not affect
existing data.

Example: 8

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1482 of 2039

WORKWOST

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This code identifies the user status for work No
orders when updated by the
Generate/Release WOs form. The work order
must have the system status R.

Example: L

Organization options
The tables in this appendix display a list of the organization options for HxGN EAM multiorganization security (MOS). The tables are organized by corresponding modules for the
organization options.
For more information on multi-organization security (MOS) and adding options for
organizations, see Implementing multi-organization security (MOS).

Base options
See the following table for Base options:

Code

Description

Validation Type

Module Fixed

DOC Value for the
UMKE Documoto
Y
Tenant
Encrypted
Key (tek).

Free Text

Base

'-'

DOC
UMU
RL

URL for the
Documoto
Server.

Free Text

Base

'-'

DOC
UMU

Value for the
Documoto

Free Text

Base

'-'

Valid Values

Default Value

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1483 of 2039

SR

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

username.

Call Center options
See the following table for Call Center module options:

Case

Description

Validation Type

Module Fixed

Valid Values

Default Value

CASE Cascades the Code

Call

NO, SCHED,

NO

CASC scheduled
dates for case
tasks
automatically
based on the
previous tasks
and tasks
duration.

Center

SRE
QDS
P

Call
Center

Determines
Code
which
equipment
displays. If set
to ALL, all
equipment is
displayed. If
set to
ASSOCIATE
D, only
equipment
associated to
the contact is
displayed.

'-'

BOTH

'-'

ALL,
ALL
ASSOCIATED

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1484 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment options
See the following table for Asset Management module options:

Code

Description

Validation Type

AINVA Determines
Code
PP
resolution of the
asset when the
asset inventory

Fixed

‘-‘

Valid Values

FOUND, NOTFOUND,
BLOCK

Default Value

FOUND

session is
approved, and
the Observed
Physical/Bin
Location is
NULL. If
FOUND, then
system sets the
Resolution of
the asset to
"Asset Found".
If NOT-FOUND,
system sets the
resolution of the
asset to "Asset
Not Found". If
BLOCK, the
system does
not allow
approving the
session if any
unresolved
assets exist.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1485 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

GENE Determines the Integer
QMAX threshold at
which the
equipment
generation
process starts
in
asynchronous
(background)
mode. If
Generate
Count is higher
than this
setting, the
process runs
asynchronous
and the process
is queued.
Otherwise the
process runs
synchronous
and the user
must wait for
the process to
finish.

'-'

1, 999999

100

GENE Prevents the
Code
QWRN start of the
equipment
generation
process when
warnings still
exist. If set to
YES the system
asks the user to
start the

'-'

YES, NO

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1486 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

generation
process and
ignore the
warnings. If set
to NO, the
system does
not allow the
user to start the
generation
process.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1487 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

GENE Prevents the
Code
QPMR equipment
generation
process from
creating PM
work orders if
PM revision
control is
active.If set to
YES, the
system
generates PM
work orders
without asking
for approval. If
set to NO, the
system will not
generate PM
work orders. If
set to
WARNING, the
system raises a
warning
message during
the Preview
generation.

'-'

YES, NO,
WARNING

NO

METR Determines if
Code
DOWN meter readings
will roll down to
child equipment
with the same
UOM and with a
meter type that
indicates it is a
child. If set to

'-'

AC, DC

AC

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1488 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

AC, the reading
will roll down to
all qualifying
children on any
level. If set to
DC, the reading
will only roll
down one level
to qualifying
children.

RCMP Determines if
Code
REFS extra features
for the setup of
the RCM tree
will be
available. If set
to OFF, the
system offers
no extra
features. If set
to FDSC, the
system will
format the
description
using a noun, a
verb, and an
optional
complement.
This setting is
only available
for failure mode
descriptions. If
set to FMEF,
the system will
show the effect
indicator and

'-'

OFF, FDSC,
FMEF, FULL

OFF

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1489 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

consequence
fields for a
failure mode. If
set to FULL, all
extra features
are active.

SRST Determines if
Code
SYNC the system
should maintain
a structure
record between
the header
equipment and
the segment or
the route, if a
record is
inserted or
deleted on the
Segments or
Routes tab of
the equipment
screens. If set
to I, a structure
record will be
created at
insert. If set to
D, the structure
record will be
removed at
delete. If set to
ID, the structure
is maintained
both at insert
and delete. If
set to OFF, the
system will do

‘-‘

OFF, I, D, ID

OFF

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1490 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

nothing.

WSSE Determines the Code
LECT default value of
the Include in
Move check
box on the
Associations
tab of the
Workspace
Moves screen.
Set to YES to
default the
selection of the
check box. Set
to NO to clear
the check box
by default.

'-'

NO, YES

YES

Materials options
See the following table for Materials module options:

Code

Description

Validation Type

HELD When
Code
BINS receiving
Direct
Purchase
material, set
to OPTIONAL
to make the
Bin field
optional. Set
to

Module Fixed

Valid Values

Default Value

Materials '-'

OPTIONAL,
PROTECTED
PROTECTED,
REQUIRED

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1491 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

PROTECTED
to make the
Bin field
cleared and
protected. Set
to
REQUIRED
to make the
Bin field
required.

ISST
OEM
P

Allows the
Code
issuing of
parts to
employee. If
the value is
NO, parts
may not be
issued to
Employees. If
the value is
YES, all parts
may be
issued to
employees. If
the value is
KITS ONLY,
only parts
tracked as
kits may be
issued to
employees.

KITLD Provide a
ESC default value
for Kit Lot

Free Text

Materials '-'

YES, NO,
KITS ONLY

NO

Materials '-'

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1492 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description
on Build Kit
screen

KITPP IF YES,
Code
ULD default Part
Pulled check
box to
selected on
the Build Kit
screen. If NO,
default the
Part Pulled
check box to
unselected.

Materials '-'

YES, NO

NO

LOTIE If NO, the
Code
XPL system will
not permit
issuing a part
that has

Materials '-'

YES, NO

YES

expired (Lot
Expiration
Date). If YES,
the system
will allow
issuing a part
that has
expired.

MAN Specify the
Free Text
USRT user status of
N
the Supplier
Return that is
automatically

Materials '-'

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1493 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

generated
when a
received part
is approved
with a return
quantity
entered. If
blank or
invalid the
system will
generate the
return in
approved
status. If a
valid user
status (Entity
DOST) with a
system code
of U, R, or A
the system
will generate
the return with
the
designated
status.

PDRC Determines
Code
PTTO the default
value for the
Direct to WO
Default field
for Stores.
The Direct to
WO Default
field is used
to determine if
Direct

Materials '-'

WO, HELD

WO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1494 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Purchase
materials are
to be received
directly to
work order or
to store (as
held item).
Set to "WO"
to have the
Direct to WO
Default
checkbox
default to
checked. Set
to "HELD" to
have the
Direct to WO
Default
checkbox
default to
unchecked.

PRCN Determines if Code
TCAT a new
supplier
catalog record
will be
created for a
part on a
purchasing
con- tract if
such catalog
record does
not exist yet.
If set to ON a
record will be
created

Materials '-'

ON, OFF,
APPR

ON

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1495 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

immediately
when the part
is added to
the contract. If
set to APPR
one or more
records may
be created
when the
contract is
approved. If
set to OFF no
catalog
records will
be created.

RQCP When copying Code
YPRC a Requisition,
if "YES",
system will
copy the
requisition
prices to the
new
requisition. If
"NO", system
will use the
current part
pricing.
Default value
is "YES".

Materials '-'

YES, NO

YES

RQDE Determines if Code
FSUP the preferred
supplier on
the Stores tab

Materials '-'

STORE,
SUPPLIER

SUPPLIER

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1496 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

of the Parts
form is used
to default the
supplier on
the Parts tab
of the
Requisitions
form when
manually
creating a
requisition. If
set to
STORE, the
preferred
supplier on
the Stores tab
of the Parts
screen is
used. If left
blank, the
preferred
supplier on
the Suppliers
tab of the
Parts form is
used. If set to
SUPPLIER,
the preferred
supplier on
the Suppliers
tab of the
Parts form is
used. The
preferred
supplier on
the Stores tab
of the Parts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1497 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

form will not
be considered
in this case.

If the
supplier is
specified on
the header of
the
requisition,
that value will
always be
defaulted to
the Parts tab.

RQP Determines
Free Text
OSTA the status of
T
the purchase
order when
the user clicks
the Generate
PO button on
the
Requisition
screen. Enter
a valid status
for the DOST
entity that is
associated to
a system
status of U, R,
or A. If left
blank, or if the
entered status
is not created
with the

Materials

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1498 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

default
system status
(Unfinish)ed.

RTNF Determines
Code
RPRT which assets
will be
displayed on
the Asset ID
lookup on the
Issue/Return
Parts screen
if a part
tracked by
asset is
returned to
the store. If
set to OFF,
the system
will show all
assets that
are installed
or in repair. If
set to ON, the
system will
only show
assets that
are a child,
grandchild,
etc., of the
equipment of
the work
order and will
also show
assets without
a parent.

Materials '-'

ON, OFF

OFF

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1499 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Projects options
See the following table for Projects module options:

Code

Description

Validation Type

CUES Determines if
Code
FERC the FERC Unit
Estimate will be
generated

Fixed

Valid Values

Default Value

'-'

YES, NO

NO

'-'

YES, NO

NO

during
compatible
units
estimation. If
set to NO, the
FERC Unit
Estimate is not
generated. If
set to YES, the
FERC Unit
Estimate is
generated
when
estimation is
performed.

CUES Determines if
Code
OVHD overheads will
be applied
during
compatible
units
estimation. If
set to NO,
Compatible
Units Overhead

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1500 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Codes are not
considered
when
estimation is
performed on a
CU Estimate. If
set to YES,
Compatible
Units Overhead
Codes are
included when
estimation is
performed.

CUES Remove Labor Integer
REMV calculation
factor: When a
valid value is
specified and
no applicable
record exists for
labor according
to the Remove
action type, this
value is divided
by 100 (%), and
applied for the
calculation of
labor hours on
a compatible
units library
record for the
Remove action
type of a
Compatible
Unit; based on
a value

'-'

1,999

none

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1501 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

specified for the
Install labor
function.

CUES Span multiplier Integer
SPMT factor:
Determines the
standard
overage
allowance for
length-based
parts that are
included in a
Compatible
Units Library
record that has
been flagged as
Span Only.

'-'

101,999

none

'-'

1,999

none

When a valid
value is
specified, this
value is divided
by 100 (%), and
applied to the
Quantity of
parts in the
compatible
units library
record.

CUES Transfer labor
TRFR calculation
factor: When a
valid value is
specified and

Integer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1502 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

no applicable
record exists for
labor according
to the Transfer
action type, this
value is divided
by 100 (%), and
applied for the
calculation of
labor hours on
a compatible
units library
record for the
Transfer action
type of a
Compatible
Unit; based on
a value
specified for the
Install labor
function.

Purchasing options
See the following table for Purchasing Management module options:

Code

Description

Validation Type

IVBYP If set to YES, Code
ASS the system
bypasses
system rules
for validation
and
processing of
invoices rom

Module Fixed

Valid Values

Default Value

Purchasi '-'
ng

YES, NO

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1503 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

external
systems. This
option is valid
for ION
integrations.

POBY If "YES",
Code
PASS system rules
for validation
and
processing of
purchase
orders from
external
systems will
be bypassed
for out of
service
indicators on
Supplier and
Delivery
Address. This
organization
option is for
utilization with
ION
integrations.
Default value
is "NO".

Purchasi '-'
ng

YES, NO

NO

PORE If YES,
Code
VRSN Revision
Reason is
required when
creating a
new revision

Purchasi '-'
ng

YES, NO

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1504 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

of a PO.

Work options
See this table for Work Management module options:

Code

Description

ACTC Specifies the
ALL

Validation Type

Free Text

Fixed

Valid Values

Default Value

'-'

status to
automatically
assign to the
work order after
the assignment
status of the
last activity is
Completed, and
all other
activities are
Completed. If
left blank, or if
the value
entered is not a
valid value for
the system
code R
(Released), the
work order
status will not
change.

ACTC If set to ON
Code
OMP when the status
of the WO is

'-'

ON, OFF

OFF

Closed, all

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1505 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

associated
Activities are
completed
automatically. If
set to OFF,
activities must
be completed
manually.

ACTDI Define the user Work
SST
status for work
order activity
Assignment
Status that will
be populated
when the work
order activity is
dispatched from
the GIS Map
WO
Dispatching
screen.

'-'

ACTDI Define one or

'-'

SCP

Work

more comma
delimited user
statuses for
work order
activity
Assignment
Status to
indicate the
dispatched
work is
complete.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1506 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

ACTC Recalculate
Code
PREQ People
Required every
time Estimated
Hours or the
work order
activity duration
changes. If set
to ON,
Estimated
Hours is
recalculated
and it is
validated that
Estimated
Hours is less or
equal to People
Required *
Duration * 24. If
set to OFF,
People
Required is only
recalculated if
its is blank, and
the validation
will not be
performed.

'-'

ON, OFF

ON

ACTC Specifies that
Code
SEND changes to the
Scheduled Start
Date and/or
Scheduled End
Date of the
work order will
impact the start

'-'

ON, OFF

ON

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1507 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and end dates
of the activities
as well. If set to
ON, the work
order activities
are updated. If
set to OFF, the
activities are
not updated.

ACTHI Specify whether Code
NTL
internal hours
can be booked
on an activity if
Hired Labor is
selected. If set
to YES, internal
labor hours can
be booked. If
set to NO,
internal labor
hours are not
allowed.

‘-‘

YES, NO

NO

ACTIN Determines
Code
FO
what is
displayed inside
the Activity
drop-downs.
Set to TRADE
to display the
description of
the trade
associated to
the activity. Set
to NOTE to

'-'

TRADE, NOTE

TRADE

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1508 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

display the note
associated to
the activity.

ACTN Determines
Code
OTE
whether or not
the system
copies the task
plan description
to the activity
note fields. Set
to YES to copy
the task plan
description, and
set to NO to
prevent the
copy.

'-'

YES, NO

NO

ACTS
UPP

'-'

YES, NO

NO

Selects the
preferred
supplier of a

Code

task plan or job
plan on the
work order
activity, on the
job, or on the
plan labor
record if Hired
Labor is
selected. If set
to YES, the
supplier is
populated if still
blank and a
preferred
supplier was

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1509 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

found. If set to
NO, the
supplier
remains blank
and must be
manually
selected.

BKPLA When using
Code
UTO
Retrieve PO
Service Lines
on the Book PO
Labor screen,
Hours Worked
is automatically
populated for
Hours for
Service (ST)
and Contractor
Hire (SH) is
automatically
populated with
the labor hours
remaining to be
booked for the
selected line.

'-'

YES, NO

NO

CCDU Determines
Code
PLCI whether during
approval of a
customer
contract, the
system checks
if equipment,
projects, or
work orders are

'-'

ON, OFF,
WARNING,
WARNINGCC

ON

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1510 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

already used on
another active
contract with
overlapping
periods. If ON,
the system
does not allow
the use of the
same
equipment or
projects more
than once. If set
to OFF, the
system does
not perform this
check. If set to
WARNING, the
system asks the
user what to do.
If set to
WARNING-CC,
the system also
considers the
charge
categories on
the other
contract and
only asks the
user if those
overlap as well.

CCFID Number of days Integer
AYS
after which no
customer
invoices will be
generated. For
Customer

'-'

0, 999999

90

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1511 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Contracts this is
after the End
Date. For
Rentals after
the Completed
Date. The
system will
change the
Status of the
contract or the
rental to
Finished for this
purpose.

CCGE Establishes the Integer
NMAX threshold at
which the
customer
invoice
regeneration
process starts
in
asynchronous
(background)
mode. If the
number
contract items
multiplied with
the number of
charge
definitions
associated to
the contract is
higher than this
setting the
process runs
asynchronous

'-'

1, 999999

100

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1512 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and the process
will be queued.
Otherwise the
process runs
synchronous
and the user
must wait for
the process to
finish.

CHCK Determines if a Code
LCPB check is
performed that
all required
checklist items
are entered or
not applicable
when signing
Performed By. If
set to ON, the
check is
performed. If
set to OFF, the
signature can
be entered
without this
validation. If set
to
RESTRICTED,
the system will
behave as
when set to ON,
but will not
allow using
Notes to
complete a
required

'-'

ON, OFF,
RESTRICTED

OFF

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1513 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

checklist item.
The restricted
setting also
impacts the
work order
close, even if
the Performed
By signature is
not required.

CHCK Determines if
Code
LFUP follow-up
activities are
automatically
generated when
signing
Reviewed By.

'-'

ON, OFF

OFF

CHCK Determines
Code
LGBS how work order
activities are

'-'

REG, WEEK

REG

grouped by
schedule on the
mobile Work
Order Checklist
screen. If set to
REG, the
system will use
an overdue,
due and future
group. If set to
WEEK, the
system will split
the month in
week numbers
where week 1 is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1514 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

day 1-7, week 2
is day 8-14,
week 3 is day
15-21 and week
4 is day 22
through the end
of the month,
and will use
these for
grouping.

CHCK Controls how
Code
LREG Regulatory
checklist items,
marked for
Repairs can be
completed. If
set to N, a valid
resolution (or) a
combination of
a valid
resolution and
follow-up
activity is
required. If set
to P, a NULL
resolution is
allowed, along
with a follow-up
activity. If set to
OFF, items can
be completed
without a
resolution or
follow-up
activity.

'-'

P, N, OFF

N

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1515 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

CHCK Determines if
Code
LSEQ the checklist
must be
renumbered
based on the
route attached
to the work
order. If set to
YES, the
system
renumbers the
checklist items.

'-'

YES, NO

NO

CLGR If FULL, the
Code
OUP
system displays
the full tree
structure in the
closing code
lookup with all
the levels in the
hierarchy. If

'-'

FULL, GROUP,
OFF

OFF

'-'

P, S, B

P

GROUP,
system displays
just one level of
the hierarchy. If
OFF, the
closing code
lookup operates
with no group or
hierarchy.

COPY Determines if
Code
TOOL standard work
order tools and
PM schedule

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1516 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

tools are used
to plan,
schedule, or
plan and
schedule tools
for work orders.
Set to P to copy
tool records
only to the Plan
Tools tab for
work order. Set
to S to copy tool
records only to
the Schedule
Tools tab for
work order. Set
to B to create a
tool schedule
record for the
planned hours
for each day the
activity runs.

CPRC Determines
Code
CLOV which lookup
will be used to
categorize
capital planning
requests. If set
to CPRQ, the
system will use
the default
Capital Request
Categorization
Codes. If set to
EMRS, the
system will use

'-'

CPRQ, EMRS

CPRQ

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1517 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EMRS codes
instead.

DELW Determines the Integer
OSES number of days
after which
auto-generated
work order
sessions will be
deleted. Each
time a session
is created, the
system will
delete existing
sessions older
than the
specified
number of days.

‘-‘

1,999999

90

FLUPF Determines if
PTP
the follow-up

'-'

YES, NO

NO

Code

work order can
have multiple
activities with
different From
Points and To
Points. If set to
YES, the
system allows
it. If set to NO,
the system
does not allow it
and one followup work order
will be created
for each activity

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1518 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

with a unique
From and To
Point
combination

FLUPT Determines the Code
YPE
type of followup a checklist
will generate. If
set to DM,
deferred
maintenance
activities will be
created. If set to
WO, a work
order will be
generated.

'-'

DM, WO

WO

LOTO Determines the Integer
RFRQ frequency of
lockout/tagout

'-'

1, 999999

365

(LOTO)
reviews, or
number of days
from the current
date after which
a LOTO review
will be required.
It is applied to
the Date
Review
Required during
the review of
LOTO records.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1519 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

LOTO Determines if a Code
RREQ review of
lockout/tagout
(LOTO) records
is required. If
set to YES, the
system requires
approval by a
reviewer for
deletion of
LOTO records.
If set to NO, the
records can be
deleted without
review.

'-'

YES, NO

YES

LOTO Determines if
RREV anew revision
of isolation
point requires
review of

'-'

YES, NO

YES

Code

lockout/tagout
(LOTO)
records. If set to
YES, during the
revision
approval, the
system resets
the review data
of the LOTO
records that
reference the
isolation point
for equipment
and locations. If
set to NO, the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1520 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system does
nothing.

LOTO Determines if
Code
SYNC new revision of
isolation point
updates
lockout/tagout
(LOTO)
records. If set to
YES, during
revision
approval, the
system applies
the new
isolation point
data to the
LOTO records
that reference
the isolation
point for
equipment and
locations. If set
to NO, the
system does
nothing.

'-'

YES, NO

NO

MERO Determines
Code
UTWO which
equipment to
copy to routebased PM work
orders. Select C
for route based
PM work
orders. Select C

'-'

C, H, B

C

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1521 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

for route or B to
have both
header and
route
equipment
copied.

MOBW This setting
Code
OCHK only applies to
the WO
Checklist
screen in
Mobile. Set to
CHECKLIST to
have the
system open
the WO
Checklist
Details screen
when a WO is
selected. Set to
WO to open the
regular Work
Order screen
when a WO is
selected.

'-'

CHECKLIST,
WO

CHECKLIST

NONC Determines the Code
ASKP automatic
update of the
status of the
associated
nonconformities
at the closing of
work orders. If
set to YES, set

'-'

YES, NO

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1522 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

any unfinished
e-inspection
(observation is
2 or higher) to
skipped, if the
record was not
updated. If set
to NO, the
system will
prevent the
closing of the
work order,

NON- Determines the Code
CAAP automatic
P
update of the
status of the
associated
nonconformities
at the closing of
work orders. If
set to YES, set
any unfinished
observation to
approved, if the
record was
created for the
work order or if
it was updated.
If set to NO, the
system will
prevent the
closing of the
work order.

'-'

YES, NO

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1523 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

OCCL Prevents the
Code
FLUP completion of
operator
checklists
where checklist
items exist that
have follow-up
selected, but for
which no followup work orders
has been
created. If set to
YES, the
system
prevents the
completion of
the operator
checklist. If set
to WARNING,
the user
receives a
warning
message but
will be allowed
to continue and
complete the
operator
checklist. If set
to NO the
system will not
perform the
check.

'-'

YES, NO,
WARNING

NO

OCFU Determines if
Code
FPTP the follow-up
work order can

'-'

YES, NO

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1524 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

have multiple
activities with
different From
Points and To
Points. If set to
YES, multiple
points are
allowed. If set
to NO, multiple
points are not
allowed and
one follow-up
work order will
be created for
each activity
with a unique
From Point and
To Point
combination.

OCFU Determines the Code
TYPE type of followup is generated
from a
checklist. If set
to DM, deferred
maintenance
activities will be
created. If set to
WO, a follow-up
work order will
be created.

'-'

DM, WO

WO

OCSTA Specify the
TUS
status of the
operator

'-'

C, R, U

C

Code

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1525 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

checklist when
the Move to
Complete
button is
clicked, and no
records exist on
the Operator
checklist tab of
Screens Setup
page. Possible
values for the
OPST entity
are: C for
Complete; R for
Review; and U
for Unfinished.

OPCK Determines if
Code
LFUP follow-up
activities are
automatically
generated when
signing
Reviewed By.

'-'

ON, OFF

OFF

OPCK Controls how
Code
LREG regulatory
checklist items,
marked for
repairs can be
completed. If
set to N, a valid
resolution (or) a
combination of
a valid
resolution and

'-'

P, N, OFF

N

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1526 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

follow-up
activity is
required. If set
to P, a NULL
resolution is
allowed, along
with the followup activity. If set
to OFF, items
can be
completed
without a
resolution or
follow-up
activity.

PERM Determines if
Code
CLEA permits are
cleaned up after
work order
changes. If set
to NO, the
system does
nothing. If set to
DEACT, the
system
deactivates
permits that are
not referenced
anymore. If set
to DEL, the
system deletes
the permit
references from
the work order.

'-'

DEACT, DEL,
NO

DEACT

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1527 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

PERM Determines
Code
MAPD deactivation of
mandatory
permits. If set to
YES,
mandatory
permits on the
work order can
be deactivated.
If set to NO,
deactivation is
not allowed.

'-'

YES, NO

NO

PERM Determines
Integer
RFRQ frequency of
permit reviews.
Indicates the
number of days
from the current
date after which
a permit review

'-'

1, 999999

365

'-'

YES, NO

YES

will be required.
It is applied to
the Date
Review
Required during
the review of
permit records.

PERM Determines if
Code
RREQ permit review is
required. If set
to YES, deletion
of permit
requires

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1528 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

approval by a
reviewer. If set
to NO, permit
records can be
deleted without
review.

PERM Determines if
Code
RREV new revision of
permit requires
review of permit
records. If set to
YES, during
revision
approval the
system resets
the review data
of the permit
records that
reference that
permit for
equipment,
locations,
categories, PM
schedules, and
standard work
orders. If set to
NO, the system
does nothing.

'-'

YES,NO

YES

PERM Determines if
Code
SYNC new revisions of
permits update
permit records.
If set to YES, at
revision

'-'

YES, NO

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1529 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

approval the
system applies
new permit data
to the permit
records that
reference that
permit for
equipment,
locations,
categories, PM
schedules, and
standard work
orders. If set to
NO, the system
does nothing.

PMLS PMLSTMTR is Code
TMTR applicable only
for WOs with
System Event
Type = PPM

'-'

OFF,INITIAL,
NEW

OFF

Set to NEW to
update the Last
Meter Reading
field on Work
Order to the
most recent
reading when
WO Status is
changed to a
new system
status of ‘C’.
Set to INITIAL
to update when
WO Status is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1530 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

changed from a
system status
that is not ‘C’ to
a system status
of ‘C’. Set to
OFF to prevent
update on
status change

PTWA Determine the Code
UTO
auto creation of
permits to work
(PTW). If set to
YES, permit to
work is
automatically
created for work
orders that
require them. If
set to NO, the
creation is a
manual
process.

'-'

YES, NO

YES

PTWC When entering Code
ONFL a conflicting
permit to work
record, the
system creates
a second
conflict record
attached to the
conflicting PTW
referencing
back to the
PTW for which

'-'

MANUAL,SYNC SYNC

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1531 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the conflict was
created. This
option controls
how the second
record is
created. If set to
MANUAL, the
system creates
this second
conflict record
but leaves the
resolution blank
and flags the
conflicting PTW
for which unassessed
conflicts exist. If
set to SYNC,
the system sets
the resolution
based on the
selection for the
originating
conflict and will
not flag the
conflicting PTW.

PTWE Determines
Code
XPIR which permit to
work
automatically
expires if Valid
Until occurs in
the past. If set
to ACTIVE, only
active permits
expire. If set to

'-'

ACTIVE, ALL

ACTIVE

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1532 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

ALL, any permit
not closed or
canceled
expires.

PTWLI Limits the
Code
MIT
number of open
permits to work
per work order.
If set to YES,
only one open
PTW is allowed
at any one
moment. If set
to NO, there is
no constraint on
the number of
open permits to
work.

'-'

YES, NO

YES

PTWM Creates permits Code

'-'

YES, NO

NO

EC

to work for
multiple
equipment child
work orders. If
set to YES, the
permit to work
is created for
MEC work
orders. If set to
NO, the permit
to work will still
be created, but
will be attached
to the multiple
equipment work

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1533 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

order, i.e., the
parent.

PTWSI Determines if
Code
GN
the Signature
field will be
available for
capturing a
physical
signature in the
Contractor Sign
Off pop-up for
Permit to Work
in the Digital
Work mobile
application. If
set to YES, the
Signature field
is shown inside
the pop-up. If
set to NO, this
field is not
shown.

'-'

YES, NO

NO

PTWU Determines if
Code
PDLO the LOTO tab of
the permit to
work can be
updated after
approval. If set
to YES, LOTO
tab can be
updated unless
the permit to
work is
canceled or

‘-‘

YES, NO

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1534 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

closed. If set to
NO, the LOTO
tab can only be
updated if the
permit to work
is unfinished.

RDRV Determines if
Code
PM
PM work orders
are included in
the reliability
calculations. If
set to YES, PM
work orders are
included in the
reliability
calculations if
the appropriate
closing code is
entered. If set
to NO, PM work
orders are
excluded from
the calculations.

'-'

YES, NO

YES

ROUT If Y, the system Code
EEOB creates multiple
equipment child
(MEC) type
work orders for
each route
equipment
when route
based PM work
orders are
released. They

'-'

Y, N

N

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1535 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

will be related
to the parent
job.

SAFE Determines
Integer
RFRQ frequency of
safety reviews .
Indicates the
number of days
from the current
date after which
a safety review
will be required.
It is applied to
the Date
Review
Required during
the review of
safety records.

'-'

1, 999999

365

SAFE

'-'

YES, NO

YES

'-'

YES, NO

YES

Determines if
Code
RREQ safety review is
required. If set
to YES, deletion
of safety
records
requires
approval by a
reviewer. If set
to NO, safety
records can be
deleted without
review.

SAFE

Determines if

Code

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1536 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

RREV new revision of
hazard and
precaution
requires review
of safety
records. If set to
YES at revision
approval the
system resets
the review data
of the safety
records that
reference the
hazard or
precaution for
equipment,
locations,
categories,
parts, PM
schedules and
standard work
orders. If set to
NO, the system
does nothing.

SAFES Determines if a Code
YNC
new revision of
precautions
updates safety
records. If set to
YES, at revision
approval the
system applies
the new
precaution data
to the safety
records that

'-'

YES, NO

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1537 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

reference that
precaution for
equipment,
locations,
categories,
parts, PM
schedules, and
standard work
orders. If set to
NO, the system
does nothing.

TEMP Determines if
Code
MATL temporary
material lists
are displayed in
material lists
lookups. If set
to YES, the
material lists
are displayed. If
set to NO, the
material lists
are not
displayed in
lookups.

'-'

YES, NO

YES

TRAC Determines the Code
ELEV level at which
MEC work
orders will be
created after
using the Trace
Route feature. If
set to ROUTE,
the MEC work

'-'

ROUTE,
SEGMENT

ROUTE

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1538 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

orders will be
created for the
selected routes.
If set to
SEGMENT,
work orders will
be created for
the segments
attached to the
selected routes.

WOBK Determines if
Code
MIDN booking hours
across midnight
is allowed. If set
to YES, two
booked labor
records are
created. If set to
NO, an error
message
displays stating
booking hours
across midnight
is not allowed.

'-'

YES, NO

NO

WOBL Determines if
Code
CORR book labor
corrections can
be made
directly on the
screen or only
via the
dedicated Book
Labor
Correction

'-'

ON, OFF

OFF

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1539 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

popup. If set to
ON, the popup
must be used
for all book
labor
corrections. If
set to OFF, the
system will
allow the entry
of negative
hours directly
on the screen
and will not
require the
popup.

WOCL Prevents the
Code
FLUP closing of work
orders for
existing
checklist items
for which
Follow-up is
selected but for
which no followup work order is
created. If set to
YES, the
system
prevents the
closing of the
work order. If
set to
WARNING, the
system sends
the user a
warning

'-'

YES, NO,
WARNING

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1540 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

message but
the user will be
allowed to
continue and
close the work
order. If set to
NO, the system
does not
perform the
check.

WOEQ Determines if
Code
DFLT equipment
changes on the
work order will
default
equipment
related data. If
set to YES, the
equipment
change
overwrites
values already
entered on the
work order from
the selected
equipment. If
set to NO, the
system does
not default any
values from the
equipment.

'-'

YES, NO

YES

This
option only
handles

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1541 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equipment
changes. If the
equipment field
is still blank
before the
equipment
value is
entered, values
will always be
defaulted, as if
the option is set
to YES.

WOFU Determines
Code
TYPE what kind of
follow-up a
checklist will
generate. If set
to DM, deferred
maintenance
activities will be
created. If set to
WO, follow-up
work orders will
be created.

'-'

DM, WO

WO

WOFU Determines if
Code
FPTP the follow-up
work order can
have multiple
activities with
different From
Points and To
Points. If set to
YES, it is
allowed. If set

'-'

YES, NO

NO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1542 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

to NO, this is
not allowed and
one follow-up
work order will
be created for
each activity
with a unique
From Point and
To Point
combination.

WOLS Set to NEW to Code
TMTR update the Last
Meter Reading
field on Work
Order to the
most recent
reading when
WO Status is
changed to a
new system
status of ‘C’.
Set to INITIAL
to update when
WO Status is
changed from a
system status
that is not ‘C’ to
a system status
of ‘C’. Set to
OFF to prevent
update on
status change.

'-'

OFF, INITIAL,
NEW

OFF

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1543 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

WOQC Specify a work Free Text
STAT order user
status with a
system status
of R or C. The
New Status on
the Work Order
Quick Close
screen is
automatically
set to this
value.

'-'

WORK Determines the Free Text
default user
WOST status assigned
to preventive
maintenance
(PM) and
maintenance
pattern (MP)

'-'

R, C

C

work orders
when they are
released. This
user status
becomes
associated to
the system
status of
Released.

Default screen locations
The tables in this appendix display a list of the default navigation paths for HxGN EAM.
The tables represent the default location of the screens as delivered with the HxGN

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1544 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EAM product. Your system administrator may have modified the locations of screens. Please
consult your system administrator if you cannot find a screen in the default navigation path.

Navigating default screen locations
All EAM screens are delivered in default locations across the system. However your system
administrators may change the default navigation path of screens for your organization. To
find the default, out-of-the-box location of a screen in EAM consult the tables below.
The screens are organized by module in the tables.

Administration menu
This table shows the default navigation path for the Administration menu screens:

Screen

Administration Setup

Default navigation

Administration > Administration Setup

Advanced Reports Author Administration > Advanced Reports Author

Alert Management

Administration > System Configuration > Alert Management

Archive Records

Administration > Setup > Archive Records

Associate Custom Fields

Administration > Custom Fields > Associate Custom Fields

Audit Setup

Administration > Security > Audit Setup

Chart Setup

Administration > Start Center Setup > Chart Setup

Classes

Administration > Setup > Classes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1545 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Closing Periods

Administration > Security > Closing Periods

Configuration Manager

Administration > System Configuration > Configuration
Manager

Cost Codes

Administration > Setup > Cost Codes

Custom Fields

Administration > Custom Fields > Custom Fields

Customer Login

Start > Programs > Internet Explorer > Enter the URL
provided by your system administrator > Customer Login

Customer Request

This screen can only be accessed by using the
Customer Request Login screen.

DC Transaction Prompts

Administration > Data Collection > DC Transaction Prompts

Data Lake Upload Setup

Administration > Data Lake Upload Setup

Documents

Administration > Setup > Documents

E-mail Notification Setup

Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Notification
Setup

E-mail Templates

Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Templates

E-mail Viewer

Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Viewer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1546 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Enterprise Search Setup

Administration > Enterprise Search Setup > Enterprise
Search Setup

Equipment Setup

Administration > Equipment Setup

eRecords Setup

Administration > Security > eRecords Setup

Export Configuration

Administration > System Configuration > Export
Configuration

Extensible Framework

Administration > Screen Configuration > Extensible
Framework

Flex Business Rules

Administration > Screen Configuration > Flex Business
Rules

GDPR Administration

Administration > Security > QR Codes Setup

Generate Enterprise
Search Definitions

Administration > Enterprise Search Setup > Generate
Enterprise Search Definitions

GL Process Schedules

Administration > GL Process Schedules

Global Text Changes

Administration > Screen Configuration > Global Text
Changes

Grid Designer

Administration > Screen Configuration > Grid Designer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1547 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Import Configuration

Administration > System Configuration > Import
Configuration

Inbox Setup

Administration > Start Center Setup > Inbox Setup

Install Parameter Setup

Administration > Security > Install Parameter Setup

Install Parameters

Administration > Security > Install Parameters

Job Setup

Administration > Data Collection > Job Setup

KPI Setup

Administration > Start Center Setup > KPI Setup

Languages

Administration > System Configuration > Languages

Locales

Administration > System Configuration > Locales

Materials Setup

Administration > Materials Setup

Menu Structure and
Permissions

Administration > Overview > Menu Structure and
Permissions

Mobile Devices

Administration > System Configuration > Mobile Devices

Mobile Setup

Administration > Mobile Setup

Monitor Interface

Administration > Data Collection > Monitor Interface

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1548 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Multi-org Security

Administration > Security > Multi-org Security

My Account

Main header drop-down on the left-hand pane

My Service Requests

This screen can only be accessed by using the Service
Request Login screen.

Organizations

Administration > Security > Organizations

Printers

Administration > System Configuration > Printers

Prompt Machine

Administration > Data Collection > Prompt Machine

Purchasing Setup

Administration > Purchasing Setup

Queries

Administration > Start Center Setup > Queries

QR Codes Setup

Administration > QR Codes Setup

Regions

Administration > Setup > Regions

Report Organization
Structure

Administration > Setup > Report Organization Structure

Reports

Administration > Setup > Reports

Roles Setup

Administration > Security > Roles Setup

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1549 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Screen Setup

Administration > Screen Configuration > Screen Setup

Screens

Administration > Screen Configuration > Screens

Start Center Setup

Administration > Start Center Setup

Status Authorizations

Administration > Security > Status Authorizations

System Codes

Administration > Setup > System Codes

User Defined Screens

Administration > Screen Configuration > User Defined
Screens

User Groups

Administration > Security > User Groups

User Setup

Administration > Security > User Setup

View Log Files

Administration > System Configuration > View Log Files

Views

Administration > Screen Configuration > Views

Web Service Prompts

Administration > Screen Configuration > Web Service
Prompts

Work Setup

Administration > Work Setup

Equipment menu
This table shows the default navigation path for the Equipment menu screens and the tab or

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1550 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

pop-up name included on each screen:

Screen

Default navigation

Asset Inventory

Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Inventory

Assets

Equipment > Assets

Assets

Equipment > Process > Batch Meter Readings

Batch Update Equipment Equipment > Process > Batch Update Reliability Ranking
Ranking Values
Values

Categories

Equipment > Setup > Categories

Change Notices

Equipment > Additional Features > Change Notices

Child Equipment
Replacement

Equipment > Process > Child Equipment Replacement

Closing Codes

Equipment > Setup > Closing Codes

Closing Code Hierarchy

Equipment > Setup > Closing Code Hierarchy

Condition Score Matrix
Setup

Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities >
Condition Score Matrix Setup

Decay Curves

Equipment > Equipment Ranking > Decay Curves

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1551 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Departments

Equipment > Setup > Departments

Energy Star Message
Viewer

Equipment > Additional Features > Energy Star > Energy
Star Message Viewer

Energy Star Setup

Equipment > Additional Features > Energy Star > Energy
Star Setup

Equipment Class
Definitions

Equipment > Equipment Ranking > Equipment Class
Definition

Equipment Configurations Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment
Configurations

Equipment Evaluations

Equipment > Additional Features > Equipment Evaluations

Equipment Generation

Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment
Generation

Equipment Operational
Status

Equipment > Additional Features > Equipment Operational
Status

Equipment Overview 360 Equipment > Equipment Overview 360

Equipment Ranking

Equipment > Equipment Ranking

GIS Map Search

Equipment > GIS Map Search

Key Management

Equipment > Additional Features > Key Management

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1552 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Linear Direction Setup

Equipment > Linear Direction Setup

Locations

Equipment > Setup > Locations

Maps

Equipment > Maps

Meters

Equipment > Setup > Meters

Nonconformities

Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities >
Nonconformities

Nonconformity
Observations

Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities >
Nonconformity Observations

Nonconformities Setup

Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities >
Nonconformity Observations

Nonconformity Types

Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities >
Nonconformity Types

Notebook

Equipment > Notebook

Objectives

Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management
Policy > Objectives

Operational Status

Equipment > Operational Status

Performance Formulas

Equipment > Additional Features > Performance Formulas

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1553 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Policies

Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management
Policy > Policies

Positions

Equipment > Positions

Profiles

Equipment > Setup > Profiles

RCM Templates

Equipment > Setup > RCM Templates

Reliability Ranking

Equipment > Setup > Reliability Ranking

Reservation Calendar

Equipment > Additional Features > Reservation Calendar

Risk Matrix Setup

Equipment > Setup > Risk Matrix Setup

Sets/Consists

Equipment > Setup > Risk Matrix Setup

Strategies

Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management
Policy > Strategies

Systems

Equipment > Systems

Warranties

Equipment > Warranty > Warranties

Warranty Claims

Equipment > Warranty > Warranty Claims

Workspaces

Equipment > Additional Features > Workspaces

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1554 of 2039

Workspace Moves

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment > Additional Features > Workspace Moves

Materials menu
This table shows the default navigation path for the Materials menu screens:

Screen

Add Parts

Default navigation

Materials > Create Requisition > Add Parts
This screen is not directly selectable. When you click on
the Add Parts button from the Create Requisition screen, this
screen will display.

Breakup Kit

Materials > Kits > Breakup Kit

Build Kit

Materials > Kits > Build Kit

Calculate EOQ

Materials > Process > Calculate EOQ

Commodities

Materials > Setup > Commodities

Create Requisition

Materials > Create Requisition

Currencies

Materials > Setup > Currencies

Greenhouse Gases

Materials > Setup > Greenhouse Gases

Generate ABC Analysis

Materials > Process > Generate ABC Analysis

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1555 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Generate Requisitions

Materials > Process > Generate Requisitions

Held Items Transfer

Materials > Held Items Management > Held Items Transfer

Held Items to Stock
Transfer

Materials > Held Items Management > Held Items to Stock
Transfer

Internal Repair Receipts

Materials > Held Items Management > Held Items to Stock
Transfer

iProcure Vendors

Materials > Setup > iProcure Vendors

Issue/Return Parts

Materials > Transactions > Issue/Return Parts

Lots

Materials > Transactions > Issue/Return Parts

Manufacturer Part
Numbers

Materials > Overview > Manufacturer Part Numbers

Manufacturers

Materials > Setup > Manufacturers

Non-PO Receipts

Materials > Transactions > Non-PO Receipts

Packages

Materials > Held Items Management > Packages

Part Condition Templates Materials > Setup > Part Condition Templates

Part Hierarchy Codes

Materials > Setup > Part Hierarchy Codes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1556 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Part Inspections

Materials > Transactions > Part Inspections

Part Number History

Materials > Overview > Part Number History

Part Reservations

Materials > Overview > Part Reservations

Part Requisitions

Materials > Part Requisitions

Part Warranty Claims

Materials > Part Warranty Claims

Parts

Materials > Parts

Physical Inventory

Materials > Transactions > Physical Inventory

Pick Tickets

Materials > Pick Tickets

PO Receipts

Materials > Transactions > PO Receipts

Quick Store-to-Store
Transfer

Materials > Transactions > Quick Store-to-Store Transfer

Reasons for Return

Materials > Setup > Reasons for Return

Requisition Details

Materials > View Requisitions > Requisition Details
This screen is not directly selectable. When you select a
record from the View Requisitions screen, this screen will open.

Requisitions

Materials > Requisitions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1557 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Review/Approve
Requisitions

Materials > Review/Approve Requisitions

Stock to Held Items
Transfer

Materials > Held Items Management > Stock to Held Items
Transfer

Store Groups

Materials > Setup > Store Groups

Store-to-Store Issues

Materials > Transactions > Store-to-Store Issues

Store-to-Store Receipts

Materials > Transactions > Store-to-Store Receipts

Store-to-Store
Requisitions

Materials > Store-to-Store Requisitions

Stores

Materials > Setup > Stores

Supplier Part Numbers

Materials > Overview > Supplier Part Numbers

Supplier Returns

Materials > Transactions > Supplier Returns

Suppliers

Materials > Setup > Suppliers

Tax Codes

Materials > Setup > Tax Codes

Tax Rate Types

Materials > Setup > Tax Rate Types

Tax Rates

Materials > Setup > Tax Rates

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1558 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Units of Measure

Materials > Setup > Units of Measure

View Requisitions

Materials > View Requisitions

Operations menu
This table shows the default navigation path for the Operations menu screens:

Screen

Default navigation

Analytics Variable Setup

Operations > Analytics Variable Setup

Budget Calendar Types

Operations > Budgets > Budget Calendar Types

Budget Groups

Operations > Budgets > Budget Groups

Budget Structures

Operations > Budgets > Budget Structures

Budget Terms

Operations > Budgets > Budget Terms

Budgets

Operations > Budgets > Budgets

Bulletin Board Notices

Operations > Setup > Bulletin Board Notices

Calendar Groups

Operations > Setup > Calendar Groups

Call Center

Operations > Call Center

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1559 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Call Center Setup

Operations > Setup > Call Center Setup

Case Management

Operations > Case Management

Case Management Tasks Operations > Case Management Tasks

Contact Information

Operations > Setup > Contact Information

Customer Surveys

Operations > Setup > Customer Surveys

Data Warehouse Run Log Operations > Data Warehouse Run Log

Data Warehouse Run
Parameters

Operations > Data Warehouse Run Parameters

Event Log Type Filter

Operations > Setup > Event Log Type Filter

Investment Planning

Operations > Investment Planning

Knowledge Base Articles Operations > Setup > Knowledge Base Articles

Overview

Operations > Overview

Providers

Operations > Setup > Providers

Service Categories

Operations > Setup > Service Categories

Service Codes

Operations > Setup > Service Codes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1560 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Purchasing menu
This table shows the default navigation path for the Purchasing menu screens:

Screen

Default navigation

Assets for PO

Purchasing > Assets for PO

Blanket Orders

Purchasing > Blanket Orders

Clauses of Contract
Classes

Purchasing > Contracts > Clauses of Contract Classes

Credit Cards

Purchasing > Setup > Credit Cards

Delivery Addresses

Purchasing > Setup > Delivery Addresses

Generate POs

Purchasing > Process > Generate POs

Invoice Allocations

Purchasing > Invoice Allocations

Invoice Lines per Buyer

Purchasing > Overview > Invoice Lines per Buyer

Invoice Vouchers

Purchasing > Invoice Vouchers

PO Revision History

Purchasing > PO Revision History

PO Terms

Purchasing > Setup > PO Terms

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1561 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

PO Update

Purchasing > Process > PO Update

Purchase Orders

Purchasing > Purchase Orders

Purchasing Clauses

Purchasing > Setup > Purchasing Clauses

Purchasing Contracts

Purchasing > Contracts > Purchasing Contracts

Purchasing Contract Text Purchasing > Contracts > Purchasing Contract Text

Quotations

Purchasing > Quotes > Quotations

Requests for Quotations

Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations

Work menu
Screen

Default navigation

Adjustments

Work > Customer Contracts > Adjustments

Advanced Maintenance
Planning Configuration

Work > Additional Features > Advanced Maintenance
Planning Configuration

AMS-Approve Customer
Charges

Work > Additional Features > Asset Management Services >
AMS-Approve Customer Charges

AMS-Customer Contracts Work > Additional Features > Asset Management Services >
AMS-Customer Contracts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1562 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

AMS-Customer Invoice
Lines Overview

Work > Additional Features > Asset Management Services >
AMS-Customer Invoice Lines Overview

AMS-Customer Invoices

Work > Additional Features > Asset Management Services >
AMS-Customer Invoices

AMS-Customers

Work > Additional Features > Service Request > AMSCustomers

AMS-Pricing Schedules

Work > Additional Features > Asset Management Services >
AMS-Pricing Schedules

Approval Lists

Work > Revision Control > Approval Lists

Approve Inspection
Results

Work > Process > Approve Inspection Results

Aspects

Work > Inspections > Aspects

Assets Healthcare

Work > Verticals > Healthcare > Assets Healthcare

Batch Fuel Issues

Work > Fuel Management > Batch Fuel Issues

Book Labor By Employee Work > Process > Book Labor By Employee

Book PO Labor

Work > Process > Book PO Labor

Calibration Results

Work > Additional Features > Calibration Results

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1563 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Campaigns

Work > Projects > Campaigns

Capital Planning
Requests

Work > Additional Features > Capital Planning Requests

Compatible Units
Accounting Codes

Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units
Accounting Codes

Compatible Units Fixed
Asset Codes

Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units
Fixed Asset Codes

Compatible Units Library

Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units
Library

Compatible Units
Overhead Codes

Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units
Overhead Codes

Conditions

Work > Inspections > Conditions

Contract Templates

Work > Contract Management > Contract Templates

Contractor Portal

Work > Contractor Portal

CU Estimates

Work > Projects > Compatible Units > CU Estimates

Customers

Work > Contract Management > Customers

Customer Contracts

Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1564 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Customer Invoices

Work > Contract Management > Customer Invoices

Depots

Work > Fuel Management > Depots

Deferred Maintenance

Work > WO Planning > Deferred Maintenance

Employees

Work > Setup > Employees

Facilities

Work > Verticals > Hospitality > Facilities

Findings

Work > Inspections > Findings

Fleet Billing Codes

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Billing Codes

Fleet Bills

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Bills

Fleet Configuration

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Configuration

Fleet Cost Code Search & Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Cost Code Search
Replace
& Replace

Fleet Customers

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Customers

Fleet Markup Codes

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Markup Codes

Fleet Vehicle Tickets

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Vehicle Tickets

Formulas

Work > Inspections > Formulas

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1565 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Fuel Physical Inventory

Work > Fuel Management > Fuel Physical Inventory

Fuel Issues

Work > Fuel Management > Fuel Issues

Fuel Receipts

Work > Fuel Management > Fuel Receipts

Fuels

Work > Fuel Management > Fuels

Generate Production
Requests

Work > Additional Features > Advanced Maintenance
Planning > Generate Production Requests

Generate WOs

Work > Process > Generate WOs

Hazards

Work > Permit to Work > Hazards

Incident Requests

Work > Verticals > Hospitality > Incident Requests

Information Requests

Work > Service Request > Information Requests

Isolation Points

Work > Permit to Work > Isolation Points

Job Plan

Work > Job Plans

Lockout Boxes

Work > Permit to Work > Lockout Boxes

Material Lists

Work > WO Planning > Material Lists

Maintenance Patterns

Work > WO Planning > Maintenance Patterns

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1566 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Mechanic's Workbench

Work > Mechanic's Workbench

Methods

Work > Inspections > Methods

Monitored Data

Work > Inspections > Monitored Data

Operator Checklist

Work > Additional Features > Operator Checklist

Optimized Scheduler
Setup

Work > Optimized Scheduler Setup

Permits

Work > Permit to Work > Permits

Permit to Work

Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work

Permit to Work Setup

Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work Setup

Point Types

Work > Inspections > Point Types

PM Forecasting

Work > WO Planning > PM Forecasting

PM Plans

Work > WO Planning > PM Plans

PM Schedules

Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules

PM Work Packages

Work > WO Planning > PM Work Packages

Precautions

Work > Permit to Work > Precautions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1567 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Production Requests

Work > Additional Features > Advanced Maintenance
Planning > Production Requests

Projects

Work > Projects > Projects

Project Budgets

Work > Projects > Project Budgets

Properties

Work > Service Request > Properties

Properties Healthcare

Work > Verticals > Healthcare > Properties Healthcare

Property Information

Work > Service Request > Property Information

Qualifications

Work > Setup > Qualifications

Release Individual PM
WOs

Work > Process > Release Individual PM WOs

Reservation Requests

Work > Contract Management > Reservation Requests

Reservations

Work > Contract Management > Reservations

Review Reservation
Requests

Work > Contract Management > Review Reservation
Requests

Review Operator
Checklist

Work > Additional Features > Operator Checklist > Review
Operator Checklists

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1568 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Review Work Requests

Work > Review Work Requests

Revision Approval

Work > Revision Control > Revision Approval

Revision Control History

Work > Revision Control > Revision Control History

Revision Control Setup

Work > Revision Control > Revision Control Setup

Rooms

Work > Verticals > Hospitality > Rooms

Routes

Work > WO Planning > Routes

Service Codes

Work > Service Request > Service Codes

Service Request Portal

Accessed via a special URL.

Service Request Portal -

Accessed via a special URL.

Create Request

Service Requests

Work > Service Requests

Shifts

Work > Setup > Shifts

Shutdowns

Work > Projects > Shutdowns

Standard Crews

Work > Setup > Standard Crews

Standard WOs

Work > WO Planning > Standard WOs

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1569 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Supervisors

Work > Setup > Supervisors

Systems Healthcare

Work > Verticals > Healthcare > Systems Healthcare

Task Plan

Work > WO Planning > Task Plans

Tools

Work > Setup > Tools

Trades

Work > Setup > Trades

Unreturned Cores

Work > Overview > Unreturned Cores

Vehicles

Work > Verticals > Hospitality > Vehicles

Work Requests

Work > Work Requests

EMRS Codes

Work > Setup > EMRS Codes

WO Daily Scheduling

Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling

WO Load Balancing

Work > WO Planning > WO Load Balancing

WO Scheduling

Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling

WO Quick Close

Work > WO Quick Close

WO Quick Entry

Work > WO Quick Entry

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1570 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

WO Update

Work > Process > WO Update

Work Orders Healthcare

Work > Verticals > Healthcare > Work Orders Healthcare

Work Orders

Work > Work Orders

Work Orders Hospitality

Work > Verticals > Hospitality > Work Orders Hospitality

Work Requests

Work > Work Requests

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1571 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

EAM reports user tasks
This guide contains procedures for configuring and generating reports within HxGN EAM.
Intended audience

This guide is intended for system administrators, implementation consultants, product
architects, support specialists, and users who wish to generate and run reports.
Organization of this guide

This table shows the sections of this guide:

Section

Description

Configuring reports

Instructions on how to define report parameters

Generating reports

Instructions on how to specify report parameters and
generate reports

Generating admin reports

Generate reports related to administrative functions

Generating asset reports

Generate reports related to asset management
services functions

Generating budget reports

Generate reports related to budget functions

Generating calibrations reports

Generate reports related to calibration functions

Generating call center reports

Generate reports related to Call Center functions

Generating contract reports

Generate reports related to contract functions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1572 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Generating fleet reports

Generate reports related to fleet functions

Generating healthcare reports

Generate reports related to healthcare functions

Generating hospitality reports

Generate reports related to hospitality functions

Generating inspection reports

Generate reports related to inspection functions

Generating materials reports

Generate reports related to materials functions

Generating project reports

Generate reports related to project functions

Generating purchasing reports

Generate reports related to purchasing functions

Generating work reports

Generate reports related to work functions

Configuring reports
Define new parameters for existing reports, modify parameters for existing reports, or create
entirely new reports.
This section describes functions that only a system administrator has rights to
perform.

Creating reports
Author users can create new reports by passing EAM parameters to external report
applications. Only system administrators should create new reports because the process
involves modifying critical system features.
After creating a report, define the report parameters and generate the authored report.
EAM reports do not support numbers with more than 16 digits.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1573 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Setup > Reports.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Report - Specify a unique code identifying the report, and then provide a description of
the report in the adjacent field.
Class - Specify the class of the report.
File Name - Specify a name for the report definition file.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining report parameters
After creating a report, define new report parameters or modify the properties of systemsupplied report parameters as necessary.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Reports.
2. Select the report for which to define parameters, and then click the Parameters tab.
3. Click Add Parameter.
Line - Specify the sequence number of the report parameter.
Parameter - Specify the parameter value for the report.
Data Type - Select the data type of the parameter, e.g., character, data, numeric, etc.
Length - Specify the maximum length of the parameter.
System Screen - Specify the code of the entity that corresponds to the report
parameter.
Type - Specify the code of the type entity that corresponds to the report parameter.
Parameter Default/Radio Button Default - Specify the default value of the parameter.
Custom Label - Specify a custom name for the parameter to be used on the Report
Parameters page.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1574 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Mandatory - Select to make the parameter mandatory.
Uppercase - Select to enforce uppercase characters for the parameter.
Remember - Select to carry over a remembered value (from a preceding screen) as a
default value.
4. Click Save Record.

Defining text for reports
After creating a report, define text for form names, tab labels, and field labels.
1. Select Administration > Setup > Reports.
2. Select the report for which to define text, and then click the Text tab.
3. Select a text label from the grid. The text details are automatically populated.
Text - Specify a new text label.
4. Click Submit.

Generating authored reports
After creating a report and defining the report parameters, generate the authored report. Only
Consumer and Author users can generate an authored report.
Before generating an authored report, add the report to the system menu bar. See
the information on setting up menus for user groups in the HxGN EAM User Guide.
1. Open the report to generate.
2. Specify the report parameter criteria for the report as necessary. The parameters
displayed are those defined on the Parameters page of the Reports form.
You must use the same parameter name on the report as is specified on the
Parameters page of the Reports form. Otherwise, when running the report, the
Parameters page will display instead of generating the report.
3. Click Print Record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1575 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Generating reports
Generate reports from the menu bar. For most reports, the system displays a Parameters
page in which you enter selection criteria for the report. Some reports also include Fields and
Group/Sort Order pages in which you specify the way reports appear, similar to the system’s
Dataspy.
Reports are available in Adobe Acrobat format (PDF). The Acrobat file provides a preview of
the report before running and enables you to print to your local printer.
HxGN EAM reports do not support numbers with more than 16 digits.

Specifying report parameters
Select the basic report parameters, options, and date range criteria before generating reports.
1. Open the report to generate.
2. Specify the parameters, options, and date range criteria for the report as necessary.
3. Optionally, select the Mark Confidential check box to print a confidential banner in the
title of the report.
To preview the report without updating the database, click Preview Report.
4. Click Print Record.

Specifying report fields layout
Select the fields to display on the report, and then specify the order in which the fields will be
displayed.
1. Open the report to generate.
This functionality is applicable to the following four reports:
• PO Status
• Databridge Message Status
• Databridge Message Status Summary

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1576 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• WO Statistics
2. Click the Fields tab.
Available Fields lists all fields that are available but not visible in the report, while
Visible Fields lists all fields currently displayed in the report.
3. See the following table when specifying the report layout:

Function

Procedure

Add a field

Select the field in Available Fields, and then
click Add a field.

Remove a field

Select the field in Visible Fields, and then
click Remove a field.

Add all fields

Click Add all fields.

Remove all fields

Click Remove all fields.

Reorder fields

Select the field in Visible Fields, and then
click either Reorder up
or Reorder down to move the field up or
down in the order.

Specifying report sort order
Select the order in which to sort report information.
1. Open the report to generate.
2. Click the Group/Sort Order tab.
3. Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1577 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1st - Select the first field by which to sort the report.
4. Choose one of the following sort orders:
• To sort records either alphabetically or numerically by the selected field (ascending) Click Sort Ascending.
• To sort records in either reverse alphabetical or reverse numerical order by the selected
field (descending) - Click Sort Descending.
1. Specify additional fields by which to sort as necessary.
To remove sort criteria, choose the --No Sort-- selection from the drop-down
list.

Specifying report group order
Select the order in which to group report information.
To specify report group order:
1. Open the report to generate.
2. Click the Group/Sort Order tab.
3. Specify this information:
1st - Select the first field by which to group the report.
4. Enter additional fields by which to group as necessary.
To remove group criteria, choose the --No Grouping-- selection from the dropdown list.

Saving report parameters
Save parameters for any report in which you enter parameter, field layout, and group/sort
order criteria.
HxGN EAM reports do not support numbers with more than 16 digits.
1. Open the report to generate.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1578 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Specify the report parameters, fields, and group/sort order criteria for the report as
necessary.
The values for Mark Confidential are not saved.
3. Click Save.
4. Choose one of the following options:
• To save the report parameters as the default parameters for the report - Specify the
Name of the saved parameters, and then select Default.
• To save the report parameters without setting them as the default parameters for the
report - Specify the Name of the saved parameters.
1. Click Submit.

Retrieving saved report parameters
Retrieve previously saved parameter, field layout, and group/sort order information for any
report in which you entered selection criteria.
Follow these steps to retrieve saved report parameters.
1. Open the report to generate.
2. Click Parameter List to select the saved selection parameters. The system retrieves
the saved selection criteria to the report screen.

Deleting saved report parameters
Delete previously saved parameter, field layout, and group/sort order information for any
report in which you entered selection criteria.
To delete saved report parameters:
1. Open the report to generate.
2. Specify this information:
Parameter List - Select the saved selection parameters to delete. The system retrieves
the saved selection criteria to the report screen.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1579 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

3. Click Delete.
4. Click Yes.

Generating admin reports
Generate reports related to admin functions.

Access violations
Description

Displays a list of access violations per user during a given time period. Access violations
occur when users enter incorrect passwords on the login page.
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Access Violations
Parameters

• Specify the User ID for whom to generate the report, or leave the field blank to generate
the report for all users.
• Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Audit log
Description

Displays a list of audited status changes.
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Audit Log
Parameters

Table - Specify the table for which to generate the list of audited status changes. Table is a
required field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1580 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Key Field 1 - Specify the field within the selected table. Key Field 1 is a required field.
Key Field 2 - Specify the field within the selected table.
Report Type

Consumer

Checklist audit
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Checklist Audit
Description

Displays audit log information for selected checklist records for a specified date range.
Parameters

Specify the checklist parameters for which to generate the report including the dates for which
to generate the report. Optional checklist parameters include:
• case management
• equipment
• operator checklist
• permit to work
• work order
Report Type

Consumer

Electronic records
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Electronic Records
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1581 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays a list of snapshots including the parent and child records.
Parameters

• Specify the Organization, Entity, and Entity Code.
• Select the Include Front Page check box to print the front page with report parameters
selected. Select the Mark Confidential check box to print a confidential banner in the
title of the report.
Report Type

Consumer

KPI/inbox usage
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > KPI/Inbox Usage
Description

Display a list of KPI's and/or inbox codes with the associated SQL code and associated
users/groups.
Parameters

• Specify the KPI for which to generate the report. Specify the Inbox for which to generate
the report.
• Specify the User Group and User for which to generate the report.
• Select to Include SQL Statement Text check box to include the SQL statement text in
the report.

List of documents
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > List of Documents
Description

Displays a list of documents and their information.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1582 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters

Specify the Organization, Document, Description, Class, and File Location to view
documents.
Report Type

Consumer

List of electronic records
Description

Displays a list of electronic signature records.
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > List of Electronic Records
Parameters

• Specify the Organization, Entity, and Entity Code. Include Front Page
• Select the check box to print the front page with Report Parameters selected.
Mark Confidential

Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Report Type

Consumer

List of functions
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > List of Functions
Description

Displays a list of functions and their information.
Parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1583 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the Class and Function for which to view function information.
Report Type

Consumer

List of HxGN EAM codes
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > List of HxGN EAM Codes
Description

Displays a list of HxGN EAM entity codes.
Parameters

Specify the Entity for which to view HxGN EAM code information.
Report Type

Consumer

List of tampered records
Description

List of records that have been altered abnormally or tampered.
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > List of Tampered Records
Parameters

• Specify the Organization and Entity.
• Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Print Flex business rules list

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1584 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays a list of all Flex SQL or business rules records.
Menu Path

Select Administration > Reports > Print Flex Business Rules List.
Parameters Table

• Specify the database table of the Flex SQL statements.
• Show SQL Statement
• Select the check box to display the SQL Statement in the report.
Include Inactive

Select the check box to display Flex SQL records where Active is not selected.
Report Type

Consumer

Temperature analysis chart
Description

Before you can set the parameters to generate the temperature analysis chart, you must
specify Temperature Minimum and Temperature Maximum on the Actual Temperatures
and Historical Temperatures tabs.
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Regions > Temperature Analysis Chart
Parameters

Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1585 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

User group configuration
Displays a list of users in each user group and the screen or report permissions specified for
the user group.
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > User Group Configuration
Description

Displays a list of users in each user group and the screen or report permissions specified for
the user group.
Parameters

Specify the User Group for which to view user and group information.
Specify the Screen/Report for which to display permissions and field attributes.
Specify % after the Screen/Report name to display permissions for the entire form,
including all tabs on the form. For example, enter WSJOBS% to display permissions for the
Work Orders form, including the Activities, Book Labor, Schedule Labor, etc. tabs.
Select the Show Permissions check box to display the general permissions for the screen or
report.
Select the Show Field Attributes check box to display all components of the screen or report
and the attributes for each.
Select the Show Status Authorizations check box to display the status change
authorizations for the users in the user group.
Select the Show WO Authorizations check box to display the work order authorizations per
work order type.
Report Type

Consumer

Generating asset reports
Generating reports related to asset functions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1586 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Annual energy reduction comparison
Description

Print the annual energy reduction comparison report.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Sustainability > Annual Energy Reduction Comparison
Parameters

Specify the Equipment, Organization, and Ending Year (YYYY) for the report.
The starting year for the report is always the year preceding Ending Year (YYYY).
Report Type

Consumer

Annual energy use
Description

Displays the annual energy usage report for a number of years as specified in the report
parameters.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Sustainability > Annual Energy Use
Parameters

Specify the Equipment and Organization
No of Years - Specify the number of years for which to run the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Asset failures by service life
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1587 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Print the asset failures by service life report.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Failures by Service Life
Parameters

Specify the Equipment, Organization, Class, Category, Primary Closing Code, and
Secondary Closing Code.
Plot Points Time Frame - Choose one of the following options:
• Month - Select to group the asset records by Service Life % month.
• Year - Select to group the asset records by Service Life % year.
Report Type

Basic

Calibration equipment
Description

Displays a list of all equipment that requires calibration and has been configured for
calibration. The report includes all equipment that is defined as a loop, instrument, or
standard if any one of these requires calibration. Standards are either parts tracked by asset
or parts tracked by lot. Only part standards that are tracked by asset are printed, because you
do not have to associate a piece of equipment with parts tracked by lot.
The System field in the report output displays all of the systems above the selected
System/Equipment in an equipment hierarchy. If the selected System/Equipment has more
than one parent in a hierarchy, each parent is shown and each code is separated with a
forward slash (/), e.g, SYS1/SYS2/SYS3.
Additionally, if the equipment tolerance is a percentage rather than an absolute, the tolerance
is designated as a percentage by printing a percent sign (%) following the devices to and from
tolerance.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Calibration Equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1588 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department,System, Class, Category, Equipment Criticality,
and Status.
Select one or more of the following options:
• Include In Service - Select to print a list of all calibration equipment that is currently in
service.
• Include Out of Service - Select to print a list of all calibration equipment that is currently
out of service.
• Include Withdrawn - Select to print a list of calibration equipment that is withdrawn.
• Include Calibration Specifications - Select to print the calibration specifications
entered for each piece of calibration equipment on the Calibration page and Test
Points page of the Assets, Positions, and Systems forms.
Order By - Select to order by Department or Equipment.
Report Type

Consumer

Calibration history
Description

Displays a list of calibration work order results for calibration work orders for which the
completion date falls within the specified start and end date. The results shown for each work
order will be related to test points having the greatest deviation from the standard.
The System field in the report output displays all of the systems above the selected
System/Equipment in an equipment hierarchy. If the selected System/Equipment has more
than one parent in a hierarchy, each parent is shown and each code separated with a forward
slash (/), e.g, SYS1/SYS2/SYS3.
Additionally, if more than one standard is used for the work order, each standard is printed
and its due date or lot expiration date is printed on a separate line.
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1589 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment > Reports > Calibration History
Parameters

• Specify the Organization, Equipment, Department, System, Class, Category, and
Equipment Criticality.
• Specify the start and end dates for which to retrieve data. End Date is a required field.
Report Type

Consumer

Capital performance evaluation
Description

Displays for the selected equipment the outstanding capital request values for the selected
period and for the future period and, if applicable, the GAS (Global Asset Sustainability)
index for the equipment. This report also displays the correlation between the GAS index and
the capital request.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Capital Performance Evaluation
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment Code, Class, Category, Request Priority, Request
Amount Minimum, Reporting Currency, Request Status, and GAS Index Evaluation
Period (Days).
Request Amount Minimum selects requests where the estimated material cost plus
the estimated labor cost is greater than the minimum entered.
GAS Tracked Equipment - Select to include GAS-tracked equipment in this report.
Green Related Request - Select to include green-related requests in this report.
Sort By - Select to sort by GAS Cost, Return Amount, or Return %.
Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1590 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Report Type

Basic

CO2 analysis
Description

Displays CO2 reduction for equipment calculated for a specific date range. The reduction
calculation can be based on the equipment efficiency (design versus actual) or on a
comparison with last year's data.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > CO2 Analysis
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Commodity, Equipment, Class, and Category.
Max No. of Records - Specify the maximum number of equipment records to display.
Min Reduction % - Specify the minimum reduction percentage. The reduction % greater than
or equal to this value is shown.
Max Reduction % - Specify the maximum reduction percentage. The reduction % less than
or equal to this value is shown.
Bill Level Only - Select to include equipment for which Bill Level is checked.
Reduction % Based on Previous Year - Select to calculate the reduction percentage based
on the previous year. The previous year can only be calculated if the selection period is equal
to or less than one year.
Sort By - Select to sort by Best or Worst.
Specify the start and end dates for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

CO2 emissions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1591 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays equipment (in graphical form) in best and worst order based on CO2 emissions for
the selected year and compares the data with the previous two years
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > CO2 Emissions
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, Commodity, and Reporting Year.
Report Type

Basic

CO2e emissions by greenhouse gas
Description

Print the CO2e emissions by greenhouse gas report.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Sustainability > CO2e Emissions by Greenhouse Gas
Parameters

Specify Equipment, Organization, and Commodity.
Select Start Date and End Date for the calendar year of the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Cost of WOs per equipment
Description

Displays a list of work order costs per piece of equipment.
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1592 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment > Reports > Cost of WOs Per Equipment
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Type, Equipment, Department, and Reporting Currency.
Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Decay curve chart
Description

View the curve chart for a selected decay curve. The decay curve chart shows curve points
and the threshold score.
Menu Path

Equipment > Equipment Ranking > Decay Curves > Curve Chart
Parameters

No parameters.
Report Type

Basic

Degree day analysis
Description

Displays a list of degrees for a specified date range and degree codes. Select the Include
History field when generating the report to display all historical data from the Historical
Temperature page. This feature compares the actual temperature data against the historical
temperature data.
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Degree Day Analysis

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1593 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters

Specify the Region, Date From, Date To, and Organization.
Include History - Select to include historical data to allow a comparison between the actual
temperature data vs. the historical temperature data.
Report Type

Consumer

Downtime tracking
Description

Displays a list of all work orders and/or equipment where Downtime Costs or Hours exist on
the header.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Downtime Tracking
Parameters

Specify the Equipment, Department, Assigned To, Priority, and Organization.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to begin and end tracking the downtime for
the equipment.
Report Type

Basic

Energy Star ratings chart
Description

Print the energy star ratings chart report.
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Energy Star Ratings Chart
Equipment > Positions > Energy Star Ratings Chart

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1594 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment > Systems > Energy Star Ratings Chart
Parameters

Specify the Equipment and Organization.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Equipment costs by ranking chart
Description

Displays equipment costs by Risk Priority Number, Ranking Score; Condition Score, or
Facility Condition Index.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Costs by Ranking Chart
Parameters

Specify the X-Axis and Y-Axis categories for the chart. You can select Risk Priority Number,
Ranking Score, Condition Score, or Facility Condition Index for either axis of the chart.
Select Include WOs to specify which equipment costs to include in the report.
Specify the Min. Cost Included to set the minimum equipment work order costs to include
with this report. Specify the Start Date and End Date.
Specify Max. Records Ranked to specify the maximum number of equipment records
included in the report.
Specify Rank By to select how the Rank Category records are ranked. Select Top to display
equipment records with the highest values or Bottom to display equipment records with the
lowest values.
Report Type

Basic

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1595 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment depreciation
Description

Displays a report of the total equipment depreciation expense and book value through the
End Date.
Depending on the selection criteria entered, the system includes all equipment records with a
depreciation schedule of the selected Depreciation Type for which an Original Cost is
specified that does not have a Transfer Date.
If a piece of equipment is sold/scrapped, the system determines whether the Sold/Scrapped
Date is prior to the report End Date. If so, then the system displays the depreciation expense
for the equipment through the Sold/Scrapped Date and a Book Value of zero.
If you specify a future date as the End Date for the report, the system generates a report of
the actual depreciation expense/book value through the current system date, as well as the
projected depreciation expense/book value through the specified End Date.
If the depreciation method for a piece of equipment is units of output, the system generates a
report of the most recent depreciation expense/book value that is presently available based
on the current system date and units of output entered.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Depreciation
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, Type, Equipment Class, Category, Department,
Profile, Status, Location, Assigned To, Cost Code, Reporting Currency, and
Depreciation Type.
Sort By - Select to sort by Organization, Department, or Equipment Class.
End Date - Specify the ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Equipment details

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1596 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays the equipment details report.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Detail
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Type, Equipment, Status, Class, Category, Department,
Location, and Position for which to generate the report. Specify this Report Options
information:
Include Front Page - Select to include a front page with the report parameters selected.
Mark Confidential - Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Include User Defined Fields - Select to print user defined fields added to the equipment.
Include Custom Fields - Select to print custom fields added to the equipment.
Include Tracking Details - Select to print the tracking details added to the equipment.
Include Part Association - Select to print parts associated with the equipment.
Include Variables - Select to print variables associated with the equipment if it is a position or
system.
Include Contract and Rental Details - Select to print the contract and rental details
associated with the equipment.
Include Call Center Details - Select to print the call center details associated with the
equipment.
Include RCM Details - Select to print the risk control matrix details associated with the
equipment.
Include Hierarchy - Select to print the equipment hierarchy details.
Include GIS Details - Select to print the GIS details associated with the equipment.
Include Linear Reference Details - Select to print the linear reference details associated

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1597 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

with the equipment.
Include Facility Details - Select to print the facility details associated with the equipment.
Include Reliability Ranking Details - Select to print the reliability ranking details associated
with the equipment.
Include Energy Performance - Select to print the energy performance details associated
with the equipment.
Print Attachments - Select to print document attachments associated with the asset entity.
Print Images - Select to print all images associated with the equipment.
Report Type

Basic

Equipment hierarchies
Description

Displays a list of equipment hierarchies.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Hierarchies
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Parent Equipment Type, Parent Equipment, and Child
Equipment Type.
Report Type

Consumer

Equipment history
Description

Details the date and reason work was performed on a piece of equipment or an equipment
type.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1598 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment History
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment Type, Equipment, Location, Problem Code, Failure
Code, Cause Code, Action Code, and Work Order.
Show Costs - Select to show work order costs.
Show MEC Details - Select to display MEC work order details for multiple equipment work
orders.
Date From and Date To - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Equipment history drill-down
Description

Displays a list of work orders and activities for a specific piece of equipment. Drill down to the
list of parts or labor records and reasons for repairs for each piece of equipment on the work
orders and activities.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment History Drill-down
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, and Period for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Basic

Equipment performance by cost chart
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1599 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays a graph that calculates the top 10 equipment with the greatest total work order costs
for the selected dates.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Performance by Cost Chart
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, Class, Category, and Cost Code.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Equipment performance by downtime chart
Description

Print the equipment performance by downtime chart.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Performance by Downtime Chart
Parameters

Specify the Department, Assigned To, Priority, and Organization.
Downtime By - Specify one of the following options:
Hours - Select to group the asset records by downtime hours.
Cost - Select to group the asset records by downtime costs.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Equipment planning

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1600 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Prints a linear calendar listing work orders, PMs, and maintenance patterns for specific
scheduled start dates.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Planning
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, Department, PM, Assigned To, and Maintenance
Pattern for which to generate the report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Basic

Equipment reservations detail
Description

Displays report of details for equipment reservations.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Reservations Detail
Parameters

Optionally, specify the Organization, Reservation ID, Status, Work Order, and Equipment.
Optionally, select Include Reservation Details, Include Rental Details, or Include User
Defined Fields to include these details in the report.
Optionally, select the Start Date and End Date.
Report Type

Basic

Equipment transfer log

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1601 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays an overview of transferred equipment. If the transferred equipment has any child
equipment, the system also prints an overview of the child equipment.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Transfer Log
Parameters

Specify the Transfer No.
Report Type

Consumer

Expired warranties
Description

Displays a list of all warranties that have expired.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Expired Warranties
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Type, Equipment, and Location.
Near Threshold - Select to include warranties that are near their threshold.
Date From and Date To - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Fault trend analysis
Description

Details how often a piece of equipment failed and why.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1602 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Fault Trend Analysis
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Class, Category, Location, Type, Equipment, Number of
Months, Problem Code, Action Code, Cause Code, and Failure Code.
Show Faults By - Select to sort by Problem Code, Action Code, Cause Code, or Failure
Code.
Start Date - Specify the starting date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

GAS index analysis
Description

Displays the GAS (Global Asset Sustainability) index and the energy efficiency of
equipment over a selected period of time and reports how much money was spent on each
commodity (electricity, gas, water, etc.) consumed by that equipment.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > GAS Index Analysis
Parameters

Specify the Organization and Equipment.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Heating and cooling degree days vs. energy consumption type
analysis
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1603 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays the relationship between the heating and cooling degree days and energy
consumption type.
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Heating and Cooling Degree Days vs. Energy Consumption
Type
Parameters

Specify the Region, Date From, Date To, Commodity, and Organization.
Report Type

Consumer

Heating and cooling degree days vs. energy costs analysis
Description

Displays the relationship between the heating and cooling degree days and energy costs.
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Heating and Cooling Degree Days vs. Energy Costs
Parameters

Specify the Region, Date From, Date To, Commodity, and Organization.
Report Type

Consumer

Hazard chart
Description

Print the hazard chart.
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Reliability Calculations

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1604 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You may also access this report on the Reliability Calculations tab of the Positions
page.
Parameters

Specify H for Type to print the hazard chart.
Specify the Problem Code, Failure Code, Cause Code, Action Code, Sequence Number,
Start Day, and Scale Multiplier.
Report Type

Consumer

Key list-detail
Description

Displays a list of keys.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Key List-Detail
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Key, Access Level, Parent Key, Supplier, and Employee.
Clear the Show Totals check box to remove the Subtotal and Grand Total fields from the
report.
Report Type

Basic

Key management per equipment structure
Description

Display the keys associated with the selected equipment structure.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Key Management Per Equipment Structure

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1605 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters

Specify the Organization and Equipment.
Optionally, specify the Max. Levels to determine how many levels in an equipment’s
hierarchy will be displayed on the report.
Report Type

Basic

Key transactions
Description

Displays a report for transactions of keys and their associated locks for a specified period of
time.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Key Transactions
Parameters

Optionally, specify the Organization, Key/Ring, Access Level, Parent Key, Employee,
Transaction Type, Start Date, and End Date.
Optionally, clear the Show Totals check box to remove the Subtotal and Grand Total fields
from the report.
Report Type

Basic

List of categories per class
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > List of Categories Per Class
Description

Displays a list of equipment categories per class.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1606 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters

Specify the Organization, Class, and Category.
Report Type

Consumer

List of classes
Description

Displays a list of classes.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > List of Classes
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Entity, and Class.
Report Type

Consumer

List of equipment
Description

Displays a list of equipment.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > List of Equipment
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Type, Equipment, Description, Class, Category, Location,
Status, Department, and Assigned To.
Select to sort by Equipment, Class, or Location.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1607 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Consumer

List of equipment details
Description

Displays a list of equipment details.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > List of Equipment Details
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Type, Equipment, Status, Class, Category, and Location.
Report Type

Basic

List of nonconformities
Description

Displays a list of nonconformities.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > List of Nonconformities
Parameters

Optionally, specify the Organization, Nonconformity, Status, Equipment, Observation
Status, Type, Severity, Intensity, Size, and Importance.
Select Show Observations to show observations of the nonconformity.
Optionally, clear the Show Totals check box to remove the Subtotal and Grand Total fields
from the report.
Report Type

Basic

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1608 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Mean time between failures
Description

Displays the average time between failures.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Mean Time Between Failures
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Class, Category, Equipment Type, Equipment, and Location.
Show Faults By - Select to sort by Problem Code, Action Code, Cause Code, or Failure
Code.
Date From and Date To - Specify the starting date and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Mean time between failures per equipment
Description

Details why a piece of equipment needed work and the average time between failures.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Mean Time Between Failures Per Equipment
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Class, Category, Equipment Type, Equipment, Location,
Problem Code, Action Code, Cause Code, and Failure Code.
Show Faults By - Select to sort by Problem Code, Action Code, Cause Code, Failure
Code, or Equipment.
Date From and Date To - Specify the starting date and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1609 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Basic

Meter history
Description

Displays meter information and meter readings by piece of equipment.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Meter History
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Class, Category, Location, Type, Equipment, Status, and
Department.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Nonconformities analysis chart
Description

The nonconformity analysis chart displays a breakdown of nonconformities by severity,
intensity, importance, or condition index.
Menu Path

• Equipment > Assets
• Equipment > Positions
• Equipment > Systems
Select the Nonconformities Analysis tab.
Parameters

Specify the Chart Type, Start Date, and End Date.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1610 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify Group By to determine how nonconformities are grouped.
Optionally, specify the Header Nonconformity Status and the Observation Status.
Select the Based On Observations to have values display based on nonconformity
observations instead of the nonconformity header record.
Report Type

Basic

OEE metrics
Description

Shows the overall efficiency of equipment based on the availability, performance, and quality
of the equipment.
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > OEE Metrics Equipment > Positions > OEE Metrics Equipment >
Systems > OEE Metrics
You must first select the record, and then click the OEE Metrics tab.
Parameters

Enter the Type, Availability, Performance, Quality, Red Max. Limit (%), Yellow Max. Limit
(%), Green Max. Limit (%).
Enter the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Basic

PM repair costs chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > PM Repair Costs Chart
You may also access this report on the PM Repair Costs Chart tab of the Positions
and Systems pages.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1611 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Prints the PM work order repair costs chart report.
Parameters

Specify the Equipment and Organization.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve the data.
Report Type

Consumer

Print notebook report
Description

Print the notebook report with details about the notebook records.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Print Notebook Report
Parameters

Specify the Notebook, Created By, Equipment, Nonconformity Class, Nonconformity
Severity, Nonconformity Type, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3, Level 4, Start Date, and End
Date.
Include Reference Details - Select to include reference details in the notebook report.
Include Email Details - Select to include email details in the notebook report.
Include User Defined Fields - Select to include user defined fields in the notebook report.
Include Custom Fields - Select to include custom fields in the notebook report.
Report Type

Basic

Print maintenance pattern

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1612 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Maintenance Pattern
Description

Print a maintenance pattern record.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Timeline Start Date, Timeline End Date, Maintenance Pattern,
Class, Equipment, Equipment Type, Department, Equipment Class, Category, Cost
Code, and Assigned To for which to generate the report.
Select the Include Sequence check box to include sequence details in the report. Select the
Include Timeline check box to include timeline details in the report.
Select the Include User Defined FIelds check box to include user defined fields in the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Print reliability survey
Description

Print the reliability survey report.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Print Reliability Survey
Parameters

Reliability Ranking - Enter the reliability ranking for which to print survey reports.
Report Type

Consumer

Printing temperature analysis chart
Before you can set the parameters to generate the temperature analysis chart, you must

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1613 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

enter Temperature Minimum and Temperature Maximum on the Actual Temperatures and
Historical Temperatures tabs.
To print temperature analysis chart:
1. Select Administration > Setup > Regions.
2. Select the region for which to generate the temperature analysis chart, and then click
the Temperature Analysis Chart tab.
3. Specify this information:
Start Date - Specify the starting date for which to retrieve data.
End Date - Specify the ending date for which to retrieve data.
4. Click Submit.
5. Click Print.

Ranking history chart
Description

Print the ranking history chart. The chart includes the condition index, risk priority index, and
criticality index.
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Ranking History Chart
Equipment > Positions > Ranking History Chart
Equipment > Systems > Ranking History Chart
Parameters

Condition Index - Select this check box to include the condition index in the ranking history
chart.
Condition Index Type - Select the condition index type to include in the report.
Risk Priority Index - Select this check box to include the risk priority index in the ranking
history chart.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1614 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Risk Priority Type - Select the risk priority index type to include in the report.
Criticality Index - Select this check box to include the criticality index in the ranking history
chart.
Criticality Index Type -Select the criticality index type to include in the report.
Usage Based - Select this check box to show the ranking history by usage instead of by date.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the start and end date for the report.
Report Type

Consumer

RCM equipment at risk
Description

Print the RCM (Reliability Centered Maintenance) Equipment at Risk report. This report
shows assets that have a certain minimum risk level and do not have preventative
maintenance planned.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > RCM Equipment At Risk Report
Parameters

Organization - Select the organization for which to print the RCM equipment at risk report.
Equipment - Select the equipment to include in the report.
RCM Project - Select the RCM project associated with the equipment.
Minimum Risk Level - Specify the minimum risk level for the equipment you want to view.
Report Type

Basic

RCM potential yearly savings
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1615 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This report displays equipment or non-critical assets up to a certain risk level with PM and
maintenance pattern cost information attached. The costs are converted to an annual budget
and provide data on potential savings in the case where preventive maintenance is not
performed on non-critical assets.
Only assets with the maximum risk level or lower threshold risk levels are selected and
displayed.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > RCM > RCM Potential Yearly Savings
Parameters

Specify the Organization, RCM Project, Maximum Risk Level, and Equipment.
Years Included in Avg. - Specify the number of years to include in the average costs per PM
or maintenance pattern.
Include Children - Select to include the children of the selected equipment in the report.
Report Type

Basic

RCM risk levels
Description

Print the RCM Risk Levels report for equipment. The RCM (Reliability Centered
Maintenance) Risk Levels report shows the output of a RCM risk assessment or risk
analysis. The report includes risk matrix set-up records where Type is Risk Level.
You can sort the report by Risk Level or Risk Priority Number.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > RCM Risk Levels
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, RCM Project, Minimum Risk Level, and the RCM
Level.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1616 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Include Children - Select this check box to include the children of the selected equipment in
the report.
Include Functions - Select this check box to include the list of functional failures for the
selected equipment.
Include Failure Modes - Select this check box to include the list of failure modes for the
selected equipment.
Risk Assessment - Select this check box to show all records that have a risk level of risk
assessment.
Risk Analysis - Select this check box to show all records that have a risk level of risk
analysis.
Report Type

Basic

Reliability calculations
Description

Print the reliability calculations chart.
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Reliability Calculations
You may also access this report on the Reliability Calculations tab of the Positions
page.
Parameters

Specify the Type, Problem Code, Failure Code, Cause Code, Action Code, Sequence
Number, Start Day, and Scale Multiplier.
Report Type

Consumer

Reliability chart

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1617 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Print the reliability chart.
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Reliability Calculations
You may also access this report on the Reliability Calculations tab of the Positions
page.
Parameters

Specify the Type, Problem Code, Failure Code, Cause Code, Action Code, Sequence
Number, Start Day, and Scale Multiplier.
Report Type

Consumer

Reliability growth
Description

Print the reliability growth chart.
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Reliability Growth Equipment > Positions > Reliability Growth
Parameters

Enter the Equipment, Organization, Calculation Method, Action Code, Cause Code,
Failure Code, Problem Code, Sequence Number, Start Day, and Multiplier.
Report Type

Consumer

Ring list-detail
Description

Displays a list of key rings.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1618 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Ring List-Detail
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Ring, Key, and Employee.
Clear the Include Totals check box to remove the Subtotal and Grand Total fields from the
report.
Report Type

Basic

Risk matrix
Description

Print the risk matrix report. The risk matrix report shows records where Type is equal to
Consequence Category. The report also uses probability and risk level records.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > RCM > Risk Matrix
Parameters

Specify RCM Project, Consequence Category, Consequence, Probability, Equipment,
and Organization.
Include Children - Select to include the children of the selected equipment in the report.
Show Equipment - Select to display the number of equipment records for each consequence
category.
Show Failure Modes - Select to display the number of failure mode records for each
consequence category.
If you select the Show Equipment or Show Failure Modes check boxes, each cell
of the risk matrix may contain a hyperlink that opens a separate report that displays the
equipment or failure mode records that make up that count.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1619 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Show Legend - Select to display the legend in the report.
Report Type

Basic

Table of equipment with custom fields
Description

Displays a table of the technical details of equipment.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Table of Equipment with Custom Fields
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Type, Equipment, Description, Class, Category, Location,
Custom Field, Value,Text, and Department.
Report Type

Consumer

Top 10 equipment breakdowns
Description

Displays a pie chart representing the top 10 most commonly occurring work order types
requested for selected equipment. The reports will display donut charts of the following:
• top 10 work order types
• top 10 service problem codes
• top 10 action codes
• top 10 failure codes
• top 10 cause codes
• top 10 problem codes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1620 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Top 10 Breakdowns
Equipment > Positions > Top 10 Breakdowns
Equipment > Systems > Top 10 Breakdowns
Parameters

Enter the Equipment, Organization, Department, and Type for which to retrieve data.
Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Total annual energy use
Description

Displays the annual energy usage report for one year as specified in the report.
Menu Path

Select Equipment > Reports > Asset Sustainability > Total Annual Energy Use.
Parameters

Specify the Equipment and Organization.
Year (YYYY) - Specify the specific year for which to retrieve the data.
Report Type

Consumer

Unreliability chart
Description

Print the unreliability chart.
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1621 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment > Assets > Reliability Calculations
You may also access this report on the Reliability Calculations tab of the Positions
page.
Parameters

Specify U for Type to print the unreliability chart.
Specify the Problem Code, Failure Code, Cause Code, Action Code, Sequence Number,
Start Day, and Scale Multiplier.
Report Type

Consumer

Warranty claims
Description

Displays a list of claims filed against an equipment warranty.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Warranty Claims
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Claim, Supplier, Equipment, Status, Warranty, System Level,
Assembly Level, and Component Level.
Summary - Select to print the warranty summary.
Settlement Details - Select to print closing details.
Filed Date - Select to print the filed date.
Activities - Select to print work order activities.
Sort By - Select to sort by Supplier, Equipment, or Warranty.
Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1622 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Basic

Warranty claim vs. settlement chart
Description

Before you can set the parameters to generate the warranty claim vs. settlement chart, you
must update the system Status of the warranty claim to Response Received. The system
does not display this status as an option until the warranty claim has been given a system
Status of Approved.
Menu Path

Equipment > Warranty > Warranties > Warranty Claim vs. Settlement Chart
Parameters

Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Weekly booked hours by department
Description

View weekly booked hours by department for a seven day period. Optionally, select a specific
employee for which to view booked hours.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Weekly Booked Hours by Department
Parameters

Specify the Department, Employee, and Organization.
Specify the Start Date for the report.
Report Type

Consumer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1623 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work order repair costs chart
Description

Prints the work order repair costs chart report.
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Work Order Repair Costs Chart
You may also access this report on the Work Order Repair Costs Chart tab of the
Positions and Systems forms.
Parameters

Enter the Equipment and Organization.
Enter the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve the data.
Report Type

Consumer

Workspace moves and associations list
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Workspace Moves and Associations List
Description

Displays a report of all workspace moves and their associations.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Workspace Move, Status, From Workspace, and To
Workspace for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Basic

WO cost by equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1624 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost by Equipment
Description

Includes a list of work order costs per piece of equipment.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Type, Equipment, Department, Class, Category, Location,
Minimum Cost, and Reporting Currency.
In Applicable Exchange Rate, select one of the following options:
• Actual - Select to calculate the conversion based on the exchange rate on the work
order’s creation date.
• Current - Select to calculate the conversion based on the active exchange rate.
The conversions are calculated on the printed report.
Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data in Date From and Date To.
Report Type

Basic

WO cost by type, cost code, or dept
Description

Includes a list of work order costs by work order type, cost code, or department.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost by Type, Cost Code, or Dept
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Cost Code, Department, and WO Type.
Show Costs By - Select to sort by Department, Cost Code, or WO Type.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1625 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Report Type

Basic

WO cost of equipment per location
Description

Displays a list of equipment costs per location.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost of Equipment Per Location
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Location Class, and Location.
Date From and Date To - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

WO cost summary
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost Summary
Description

Displays cost information including itemized and totaled cost information, such as labor,
materials, services, and tool costs, by equipment (and related child equipment) for open and
closed work orders.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment Class, Category, Location, Type, Equipment,
Department, Trade, Reporting Currency, WO Status, Cost Code, WO Class, and Include
WOs.
In Current Exchange Rate, select to calculate the conversion based on the active exchange
rate. Otherwise, the conversion is calculated based on the exchange rate on the work order’s

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1626 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

creation date. The conversions are calculated on the printed report.
In Show Child Equipment, select to show work order costs for children of the selected
Equipment. Only the children for which costs roll up to the parent are included.
You can select Show Child Equipment only if Equipment is entered.
Select Show Details to display the work order details in addition to the work order cost
information.
In Group By, select to group by Location, Department, Cost Code, Equipment, or Trade.
Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data in Start Date and End Date.
Report Type

Basic

WO cost summary chart
Description

Displays a chart showing itemized and totaled cost information, such as labor, materials,
services, and tool costs, by equipment for open and closed work orders.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost Summary Chart
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment Class, Category, Location, Type, Equipment ,
Department, WO Class, Cost Code, Trade, Reporting Currency, WO Status, Include
WOs, and Graph Type.
Current Exchange Rate - Select to print the current exchange rate.
Include Service - Select to print service details.
Include Labor - Select to print labor details.
Include Material - Select to print materials details.
Include Tools - Select to print tools details.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1627 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Group By - Select to group by Location, Department, Cost Code, Equipment, or Trade.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Generating budget reports
Generate reports related to budget functions.

Budget analysis
Description
Displays all work orders that are associated with the selected budget along with actual,
estimated, and remaining parts, labor, and tool costs.
Menu Path
Operations > Reports > Budgets > Budget Analysis
Parameters
Specify the Organization, Budget Structure, Budget Term, Cost Type, Cost Status,
Period From, Period To, Department, Department Group, WO Location, WO Location
Group, Equipment, Equipment Group, WO Type, WO Type Group, Cost Code, Cost
Code Group, Project, and Project Group.
Report Type
Basic

Budget position details
Description
Displays totals for each budget detail.
Menu Path
Operations > Reports > Budgets > Budget Position Details

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1628 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters
Specify the Budget Structure, Budget Term, Period, WO Location, WO Location Group,
Department, Department Group, Equipment, Equipment Group, WO Type, WO Type
Group, Cost Type, Cost Type Group, Cost Code, Cost Code Group, Project, and Project
Group.
Show Total (Or Positions) - Select to display remaining planned and on-order amounts.
Unselect to display actual planned and on-order amounts.
Free Budget - Select to sort by Spent, On Order, Planned, or All.
Report Type
Consumer

Budget summary
Description
Displays the calculated estimated, actual, and remaining costs for a selected budget.
Menu Path
Operations > Reports > Budgets > Budget Summary
Parameters
Enter the Organization, Budget Structure, and Budget Term.
Report Type
Basic

Budgets consistency control
Description
Tracks budget inconsistencies. Displays data for all structure levels.
Menu Path
Operations > Reports > Budgets > Budgets Consistency Control

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1629 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters
Enter the Budget Structure and Budget Term.
Report Type
Consumer

List of budget structure codes
Description
Displays the existing budget structures and a complete list of budget codes in the system.
Menu Path
Operations > Reports > Budgets > List of Budget Codes
Parameters
Enter the Organization.
Report Type
Consumer

List of budgets (lower level)
Description
Displays budget details for a particular budget.
Menu Path
Operations > Reports > Budgets > List of Budgets (Lower Level)
Parameters
Enter the Budget Structure, Budget Term, Period, WO Location, WO Location Group,
Department, Department Group, Equipment, Equipment Group, WO Type, WO Type
Group, Cost Type, Cost Type Group, Cost Code, Cost Code Group, Project, and Project
Group.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1630 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Report Type
Consumer

List of budgets (top level)
Description
Displays an overview of the actual amounts for a budget period.
Menu Path
Operations > Reports > Budgets > List of Budgets (Top Level)
Parameters
Specify the Budget Structure and Budget Term.
Report Type
Consumer

Generating calibrations reports
Generate reports related to calibrations functions.

Calibration analysis
Description

Displays a list of completed calibration work orders by department that have resulted in the
specified minimum number of consecutive or non-consecutive calibration statuses of pass or
fail.
The report allows you to identify patterns in the results of calibration work orders to determine
whether the frequency of calibration PMs should be adjusted, whether the equipment should
be replaced, etc.
Using Min. # of Calibrations, the system determines the actual number of completed
calibration work orders to retrieve for the report. If the actual number of completed calibration
work orders is less than the value specified for Min. # of Calibrations, the system does not
display any results. However, if the number of completed work orders is greater than or equal

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1631 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

to the value of Min. # of Calibrations, the system displays all of the work orders.
Calibration work orders are considered consecutive if there are no other work orders for the
equipment containing test points that were completed between the work orders in question.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Calibrations > Calibration Analysis
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, System, Equipment, Class, Category, and
Equipment Criticality.
Min. # of Calibrations - Specify the minimum number of work orders to retrieve for each
piece of equipment based on the selection criteria. Min. # of Calibrations is a required field.
Select one or more of the following options:
• Non-Consecutive - Select to print a list of all calibration work orders. If NonConsecutive is unselected, the system only prints a list of consecutive work orders
meeting the specified criteria.
• Include Pass With Fail - Select to include all work orders with a calibration status of
Pass, fail exists (PF).
• Include Pass With Recal - Select to include all work orders with a calibration status of
Pass, recal exists (PR).
• Include Incomplete - Select to include all work orders with a calibration status of
Incomplete.
• Print Test Point Comments - Select to print comments entered for test points in the
report output.
Calibration Status - Select one of the following options:
• Pass - Select to include only work orders with a status of Pass (P).
• Fail - Select to include only work orders with a status of Fail (F).
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
End Date is a required field.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1632 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Report Type

Consumer

Calibration due
Description

Displays a list of all open calibration work orders containing test points for which the planned
completion date is less than or equal to the Due By date.
The system calculates the planned completion date of a work order using the following
formula:
Planned completion date = (Target date + Duration) - 1

If you select to include backlogged work orders, the system displays the number of days late
for each work order in the report output. The system calculates the number of days late using
the following formula:
Days late = System date – Planned completion date

The System field in the report output displays all of the systems above the selected
System/Equipment in an equipment hierarchy. If the selected System/Equipment has more
than one parent in a hierarchy, the system displays each parent and separates each code
with a forward slash (/), e.g., SYS1/SYS2/SYS3.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Calibrations > Calibration Due Report
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, System, Equipment, Class, Category, Equipment
Criticality, and Assigned To.
No Backlog - Select to not print work orders whose planned completion date is less than
today’s date.
Show MEC Details - Select to display MEC work order details for multiple equipment work
orders.
Sort By - Select to sort by Planned Comp. Date or Equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1633 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Due By - Specify the due date for the calibration.
Report Type

Consumer

Calibration record
Description

Displays a calibration record that includes calibration header information, such as the work
order and equipment. The body of the report is printed in a tabular format that includes the
loop instruments, test points, standards used, potential standards, work order comments and
custom fields, and any equipment custom fields for the calibration work order.
The report enables you to print a document to serve as a guide for the technician performing
the calibration and also as a document on which to record the actual results of the calibration
process. The report also provides an area on which to record performed by and approved by
signatures.
After completing the calibration, transfer the information recorded on the document during the
calibration process into the system to maintain an electronic record of the calibration, and
then store the printed document in a secure location to keep a printed record of the
equipment calibration.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Calibrations > Calibration Record Report
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Department, PM Schedule, Equipment, Type,
Equipment Criticality, Location, Trade, Status, Assigned To, Assigned By, Person
Responsible, and System.
Select one or more of the following options:
• Scheduled Date Range - Select to print a list of all calibration work orders for a
scheduled date range.
• Reprint - Select to reprint a list of all calibration work orders that have already been
printed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1634 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Include Activities - Select to include all work order activities for all the work orders
included in the report output.
• Work Order Custom Fields - Select to include all work order custom fields that have
been set up to print on work orders for all the work orders included in the report output.
• Equipment Custom Fields - Select to include all equipment custom fields for all the
equipment on the work orders included in the report output.
• By Person Responsible - Select to sort the report output by the person responsible.
• Search MEC WOs - Select to search multiple equipment work orders.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Calibration reverse traceability
Description

Displays a list of calibration work orders, including all test points on the work order, for which
a selected standard has been used to calibrate a piece of equipment. The completion date of
the work orders must fall within the specified start and end date.
When the standard used for calibration is out of tolerance, it is necessary to identify the
equipment that has been calibrated with the out of tolerance standard.
The system also enables you to print work orders for which test point deviations are greater
than or equal to the specified deviation.
The System field in the report output displays all of the systems above the selected
System/Equipment in an equipment hierarchy. If the selected System/Equipment has more
than one parent in a hierarchy, the system displays each parent and separates each code
with a forward slash (/), e.g., SYS1/SYS2/SYS3.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Calibrations > Calibration Reverse Traceability
Parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1635 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the Organization, Equipment, Part, Lot, Department, Deviation, and UOM.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
End Date is a required field.
Report Type

Consumer

Generating call center reports
Generate reports related to call center functions.

Customer request
Description

Prints a copy of a customer request.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Customer Request
Parameters

Enter the Customer Request, Status, Assigned To, Customer, Employee, Department,
Provider, Service Category, Service Problem Code, and Equipment.
Customer Information - Select to display the customer's information on the report.
Action Requests - Select to include any action requests on the report.
Remarks - Select to print the customer's remarks on the report.
Custom/WO Custom Fields - Select to include all custom fields and work order custom
fields on the report.
Request Date and Promise Date - Enter the requested date and the promised date for the
customer's request.
Report Type

Consumer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1636 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Customer survey results
Description

Displays a list of all approved customer surveys and their results.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Customer Survey Results
This report is not included in the default menu. Contact your system administrator to
modify the location of the report.
Parameters

Specify the Organization and Customer Survey for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Basic

Knowledge base articles
Description

Prints knowledge base articles for call center employees.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Knowledge Base Articles
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Knowledge Base Article, Status, Language, Department,
Provider, Service Category, and Service Problem Code.
Report Type

Consumer

Open service requests
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1637 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Open Service Requests
Description

Displays the service requests with an Open status.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Start Date, and End Date for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Basic

Penalty deduction detail
Description

Displays penalty deduction details for work orders.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Penalty Deduction Detail
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Work Order, Equipment, Service Problem Code, and Provider.
Include Work Order Custom Fields - Select to include work order custom fields in this
report.
Include Service Problem Code Custom Fields - Select to include service problem code
custom fields in this report.
Date From and Date To - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Penalty deduction summary
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1638 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays a penalty deduction summary for equipment.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Penalty Deduction Summary
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Work Order, Equipment, and Service Problem Code.
Date From and Date To - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Service request overview
Description

Displays a report of the total service requests for a specific organization, including graph, pie,
bar, and area charts of the open service requests, service requests by type, service requests
by status, service requests by service code, service requests by service category, service
requests by department, service request status summary by type, and total service requests.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Request Overview
Parameters

Specify the Organization of the service requests for which to generate the report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Basic

Service request status summary by type
Description

Displays a bar chart graph of summaries of service request statuses by type when the type is

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1639 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

selected on the bar chart.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Request Status Summary by Type
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
On the chart, click the Status and Type combination for which to view service request details.
Report Type

Basic

Service requests
Description

Displays service request details regardless of status.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests
Parameters

Specify the Assigned To, Department, Employee, Supplier, Service Category, Service
Problem Code,Status and Equipment for which to generate the report.
Specify the Request Date and the Promise Date of the service request.
Select the Customer Information check box to include the customer's information in the
report.
Select the Action Requests check box to to include the action requests information in the
report.
Select the Remarks check box to include the remarks from the service request in the report.
Select the Custom Fields check box to include the custom fields in the report.
Select the User Defined Fields check box to include the user defined fields in the report.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1640 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Report Type

Basic

Service requests by department
Description

Displays service request information by the departments handling the service request.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests by Department
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
On the chart, click the Department to view a list of service requests for that department.
Report Type

Basic

Service requests by service category
Description

Displays the service requests associated with a specific service category.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests By Service Category
Parameters

Specify the Organization for which to generate the report.
On the chart, click the Service Category for which to view service request information, and
then view the details.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.

Service requests by service code

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1641 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests by Service Code
Description

Displays a column chart and list report of service requests grouped by service codes.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Start Date, and End Date for which to generate the report.
On the chart, click the Service Code for which to view service request information, and then
view the details.
Report Type

Basic

Service requests by status
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Reports > Service Requests By Status
Description

Displays a chart representation of service requests by status.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
On the chart, click the Status for which to view service request information, and then view the
details.

Service requests by type
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests by Type
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1642 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays a bar chart of the service requests by specific type.
Parameter

Specify the Organization, Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report. On the
bar chart, select the specific service request Type for which to view information.
Report Type

Basic

Top 10 call center requests
Description

Displays a pie chart representing the top 10 most commonly occurring service problem codes
requested in the call center.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Top 10 Call Center Requests
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, and Department for which to retrieve data. Specify
the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.

Top 25 service requests-details
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Top 25 Service Requests-Details
Description

Displays the top 25 most occurring service problem codes.
Parameters

Specify the Organization and Source for which to generate the report.
Select the Include Details check box to include the details of the service requests in the
report.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1643 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Basic

Total service requests
Description

Displays the total number of service requests.
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Total Service Requests
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.

Generating contract reports
Generate reports related to contract functions.

Contract classes
Description

Displays a list of the different contract classes.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > Contract Classes
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Contract Class, and Language.
Report Type

Consumer

List of debit discounts

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1644 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Prints a list of the debit discounts to expect.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > List of Debit Discounts
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Contract, Store, Supplier, and Status.
Report Type

Consumer

List of existing contracts
Description

Prints an overview of current contracts.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > List of Existing Contracts
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Supplier, and Store.
Report Type

Consumer

List of purchases under contract
Description

Displays a list of open purchase order lines.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > List of Purchases Under Contract
Parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1645 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Enter the Organization, Store, Supplier, and Contract.
• Select to include All Lines or only Open Lines.
Report Type

Consumer

Print contract
Description

Prints a copy of the contract.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > Print Contract
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Contract, Supplier, and Store.
Report Type

Consumer

Request discount based on purchases
Description

Prints a request to a supplier for the discount based on the purchase orders in the contract
period.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > Request Discount Based on Purchases
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Part, Description, For Store, Number of Months, Supplier, and
Part Class.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1646 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Consumer

Generating fleet reports
Generate reports related to fleet functions.

Fleet billing
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Fleet > Fleet Billing Report
Description

Displays a list fleet customers and the corresponding bills for each.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Fleet Customer, and Bill.
Select these check boxes to include more information in the reports:
Include Details - To include detailed billing information.
Include Custom Fields - To include custom fields in this report.
Print No Charge Bills - To print bills that have no charges.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

VMRS activities
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Fleet > VMRS Activities
Description

Prints a list displaying activity details for VMRS work orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1647 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, Trade, Department, Work Order, Status, Reason
for Repair, Work Accomplished, Technician Part Failure, Manufacturer, System Level,
Assembly Level, and Component Level.
The values available for Assembly Level are based on the system-level code. The
values available for Component Level are based on a combination of the system-level code
and the assembly-level code.
Select Show MEC Details to display MEC work order details for multiple equipment work
orders.
Specify in Activity Start Date and Activity End Date the starting and ending dates for which
to retrieve data.
Report

Consumer

Vehicle ticket
Description

Displays ticket information based on the fleet vehicle ticket.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Fleet > Vehicle Ticket Report
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Ticket, Status, Type, Fleet Customer, Vehicle, Received
Vehicle, Issued To, Cost Code, and Ticket Class.
Select the following check boxes to include more information in the report:
Include PM Details - Select to print PM details.
Include Billing Details - Select to print billing details.
Print Custom Fields - Select to print custom fields.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1648 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Include Exceptions - Select to print exceptions.
Include Billing Adjustments - Select to print billing adjustments.
Print Attachments - Select to print document attachments associated with vehicle tickets in
addition to the vehicle ticket.
Print Images - Select to print all images associated with the vehicle ticket.
Select Records By - Select to sort by Issued Date, Returned Date, or Completed Date.
Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Start Date and End Date are required fields.
Report Type

Consumer

Generating healthcare reports
Generate reports related to healthcare functions.

Print healthcare work orders
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Orders - Healthcare
Description

Includes details on equipment tracking, compliance, activities, and booked labor hours.
Parameters

Specify the report parameters, including the Start Date and End Date for which to print the
report. Select Include Instruction List to include a list of instructions in the report.
Select the check boxes to include the specific custom fields and user defined fields in the
report.
Select the check boxes to include equipment tracking details and work order compliance
details in the report.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1649 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select Print Attachments to print files attached to the work order with the report. Attached
files may originate from the following sources: the associated work order, equipment, projects,
departments, parent work orders, and locations.
Select Print Images to print all images associated with the work order. Select Booked Hours
to print the booked hours section details in the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Equipment list detail-healthcare
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment List Detail- Healthcare
Description

Print the equipment list details report for healthcare assets, medical equipment, fire and
safety equipment, and utility systems.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, Department, Status, Type, and Class.
Select Include Totals check box to calculate and include totals for all numeric fields in the
report.
Report Type

Consumer

Labor productivity-healthcare
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Labor Productivity- Healthcare
Description

Print the labor productivity healthcare report.
Parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1650 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the Organization, Employee, Trade, and Department.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Select the Include Front Page check box to include a front page with the report parameters
selected.
Select the Mark Confidential check box to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
In Group By, select to group the report data by None, Day, or Week.
Report Type

Basic

Medical equipment work orders by criticality
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Medical Equipment Work Orders by Criticality
Description

Print the report detailing the work orders for medical equipment by criticality ratings. The
report displays all work orders with PPM or JOB type.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Criticality, and Equipment Class.
Specify the Date From and Date To for which to retrieve data.
Select Show Totals to display subtotals and grand totals.
Report Type

Consumer

PM completion for life support equipment
Menu Path

Work > Reports > PM Completion Report for Life Support Equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1651 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Print the report detailing the PM completion for life support equipment. The report displays all
work orders with PPM type.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment Class, Equipment Category, and Criticality.
Specify the Date From and Date To for which to retrieve data.
Select the Show Totals check box to display subtotals and grand totals.
Report Type

Consumer

Work order list-detail-healthcare
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Work Order List-Detail
Description

Displays a list of all work orders where RTYPE is JOB or PPM. Multiple equipment child work
orders are not displayed on this report.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, WO Type, Department, Status, Equipment Type,
Equipment Class, Equipment Category, Assigned To, Priority, Criticality, Action Code,
Failure Code, and Problem Code.
Specify the Date From and Date To for which to retrieve data.
Select Show Totals to display subtotals and grand totals.
Report Type

Basic

Generating hospitality reports

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1652 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Generate reports related to hospitality functions.

Actual labor hours against estimated - hospitality
Description

Displays a list displaying how much time was spent, per trade, on work during a specified time
period versus the original estimate.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Actual Labor Hours Against Estimated-Hospitality
Parameters

Specify the Property, and Profession.
Group By - Select one of the following options:
• None - Select to not group by day or week.
• Day - Select to group by day.
• Week - Select to group by week.
Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Annual energy use-hospitality
Description

Displays the annual energy usage report for a number of years as specified in the report
parameters.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Annual Energy Use-Hospitality
Parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1653 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Enter the Equipment and Property.
No. of Years - Enter the number of years for which to run the report.
Include Front Page - Select to include a front page with the report parameters selected.
Mark Confidential - Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Report Type

Consumer

CO2e emissions-hospitality
Description

Displays equipment (in graphical form) in best and worst order based on CO2e emissions for
the selected year and compares the data with the previous two years.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Sustainability > CO2e Emissions Chart
Parameters

Enter the Property, Equipment, Commodity, and Reporting Year.
Include Front Page - Select to include a front page with the report.
Mark Confidential - Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Display Graph in Gray Scale - Select to display the graph report in gray scale.
Report Type

Consumer

Capital performance evaluation-hospitality
Description

Displays for the selected equipment the outstanding capital request values for the selected
period and for the future period and, if applicable, the GAS (Global Asset Sustainability) index
for the equipment. This report also displays the correlation between the GAS index and the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1654 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

capital request.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Capital Performance Evaluation-Hospitality
Parameters

Enter the Property, Equipment, Request Priority, Request Amount Minimum, Reporting
Currency, Request Status, and GAS Index Evaluation Period (Days).
Request Amount Minimum selects requests where the estimated material cost plus
the estimated labor cost is greater than the minimum entered.
GAS Tracked Equipment - Select to include GAS-tracked equipment in this report.
Green Related Request - Select to include green-related requests in this report.
Sort By - Select to sort by GAS Cost, Return Amount, or Return %.
Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Degree day analysis-hospitality
Description

Displays a list of degrees for a specified date range and degree codes. Select the Include
History field when generating the report to display all historical data from the Historical
Temperature tab. This feature compares the actual temperature data against the historical
temperature data.
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Degree Day Analysis-Hospitality
Parameters

Specify Property and Region.
Include History - Select to include historical data to allow a comparison between the actual

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1655 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

temperature data vs the historical temperature data.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting date and ending date for which to generate
the report.
Include Front Page - Select to include a front page with the report.
Mark Confidential - Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Report Type

Consumer

GAS index analysis-hospitality
Description

Displays the GAS (Global Asset Sustainability) index and the energy efficiency of equipment
over a selected period of time and reports how much money was spent on each commodity
(electricity, gas, water, etc.) consumed by that equipment.
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > GAS Index Analysis-Hospitality
Parameters

Enter the Property and Equipment.
Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.
Include Front Page - Select to include a front page with the report.
Mark Confidential - Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Heating and cooling degree days vs. energy consumption type
analysis-hospitality
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1656 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays the relationship between the heating and cooling degree days and energy
consumption type.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Degree Days vs. Energy Consumption Type-Hospitality
Parameters

Enter the Property, Commodity, Region, Start Date, and End Date.
Include Front Page - Select to include a front page with the report.
Mark Confidential - Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Heating and cooling degree days vs. energy costs analysishospitality
Description

Displays the relationship between the heating and cooling degree days and energy costs.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Degree Days vs. Energy Costs-Hospitality
Parameters

Enter Property, Commodity, and Region.
Start Date
End Date
Enter the starting date and ending date for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Print hospitality work orders

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1657 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Orders Healthcare
Description

Includes details on equipment tracking, compliance, activities, and booked labor hours.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Department, PM Schedule, Type, Equipment, WO
Type, Trade, Equipment Criticality, Status, Assigned To, Assigned By.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to print the report.
Select Task Instructions to include a list of instructions in the report.
Select Work Order Custom Fields to include the custom fields from the work order in the
report.
Select Work Order User Defined Fields to include the user defined fields from the work
order in the report.
Select Equipment Custom Fields to include the custom fields from the equipment in the
report.
Select Equipment User Defined Fields to include the user defined fields from the equipment
in report.
Select Equipment Tracking Details to include the equipment tracking details in the report.
Select Work Order Compliance Details to include the work order compliance details in the
report.
Select Print Attachments to print files attached to the work order with the report.
Select Print Images to print all images associated with the work order.
Select Booked Hours to print the booked hours section details in the report.
Report Type

Consumer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1658 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Incident response time chart-hospitality
Description

Displays a chart with calculations of the average response time for incident requests per
problem code.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Incident Response Time Chart
Parameters

Enter the Property, From Status, and To Status.
Enter the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve the data.
Report Type

Consumer

Incident summary chart-hospitality
Description

Displays a chart with calculations of the number of incidents per property that occurred per
month for the current year by selected groupings.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Incident Summary Chart
Parameters

Enter the Work Order, WO Priority, Status, Source, Room, Assigned To, First Name,
Last Name, VIP Status, Problem Code, Incident Details, and Property.
Select one of the following options by which to group the report details:
• Problem Code - Select to group by problem code.
• Incident Type - Select to group by incident type.
• Room - Select to group by room.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1659 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Enter the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve the data.
Report Type

Consumer

WO backlog hospitality
Description

Displays a list of backlogged work orders.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > WO Backlog Report-Hospitality
Parameters

Specify the Profession, Type, Equipment, PM, Facility, WO Type, Priority, Equipment
Criticality, Status, Assigned To, Property, and Scheduling Group.
Sort By
Select to sort by Start Date, Equipment, or Location.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

WO cost list-hospitality
Description

Displays the costs of a work order.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > WO Cost List-Hospitality
Parameters

Enter the Property and Work Order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1660 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

WO cost summary-hospitality
Description

Includes itemized and total cost information (labor, materials, services, and tool costs) by
equipment for open and closed work orders.
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost Summary-Hospitality
Parameters

Enter the Property, Type, Equipment, Profession, Reporting Currency, Current
Exchange Rate, WO Status, and Include WOs.
Current Exchange Rate - Select to calculate the conversion based on the active exchange
rate. Otherwise, the system calculates the conversion based on the exchange rate on the
work order’s creation date. The system calculates the conversions on the printed report.
Show Child Equipment - Select to show work order costs for children of the selected
Equipment. The system includes only the children for which costs roll up to the parent.
You can select Show Child Equipment only if Equipment is entered.
Show Details - Select to display the work order details in addition to the work order cost
information.
Group By - Select to group by Equipment or Profession.
Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Generating inspection reports

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1661 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Generate reports related to inspection functions.

Inspection route
Description

Displays the inspection sequences, aspects, conditions, and methods to examine during a
specific route inspection. Use this report to register the results of an inspection for later data
entry.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Inspections > Inspection Route Report
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Type, Equipment, Location, Department, PM,
Class, Category, and Route.
Report Type

Consumer

List of inspection results
Description

Displays the results of an inspection for a particular piece of equipment.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Inspections > List of Inspections Results
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Class, Category, Equipment Type, Equipment, Aspect, Point
Type, Point, Finding,Standard Work Order, Result, Minimum Value, and Maximum
Value.
Date From and Date To - Specify the starting and ending date by which to retrieve data. Date
From and Date To are required fields.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1662 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Consumer

List of points to be inspected
Description

Displays the inspection sequences, aspects, conditions, and methods to examine during a
specific route inspection. Use this report to register the results of an inspection for later data
entry.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Inspections > List of Points to be Inspected
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Equipment Type, Equipment, Location, Department, Class,
Category, PM, Route, and Aspect.
Date From and Date To - Enter the starting and ending date by which to retrieve data. Date
From and Date To are required fields.
Report Type

Consumer

Status of inspection points
Description

Displays a list of inspection points and their statuses.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Inspections > Status of Inspection Points
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Route, Work Order, PM, Equipment Type, Equipment,
Location, Department, Class, Category, and Route Status.
Report Type

Consumer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1663 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Generating materials reports
Generate reports related to materials functions.

Average monthly usage analysis
Description

Displays part usage and demand information per store for the number of months requested.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Average Monthly Usage Analysis
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Store, Part, Part Description, Number of Months, Preferred
Supplier, and Stock Class.
Report Type

Consumer

Consignment activity
Description

Displays a list of consignment activity.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Consignment Activity
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Store, and Supplier.
Date From and Date To - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Goods received note

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1664 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays a goods received note.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Goods Received Note
Parameters

Enter the Organization, PO Receipt, Transaction Code, From, From Code, To, To Code,
Purchase Requisition, Purchase Order, and Packing Slip.
Printed - Select to print transactions that have been previously printed.
Date - Enter the date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Goods return note
Description

Displays for each supplier, the supplier address and the list of goods returned. Displays all the
approved return transactions grouped by the supplier and sorted by the order number.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Goods Return Note
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Return, Supplier, and Return Status.
Reprint - Select to print a list of goods returned that have been printed previously.
Report Type

Basic

Inventory standard

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1665 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays a list of inventory items.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Inventory Standard
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Part, Class, Manufacturer, Preferred Supplier, Tracking Method,
Store, ABC Class, Reorder Qty., UOM, Stock Method, Minimum Quantity, Maximum
Quantity, Bin, and Reorder Level.
Report Type

Consumer

Kit templates list
Description

Includes details on kit parts templates. Displays a list of parts where Track as Kit is selected.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Kit Template
Parameters

Enter Organization, Kit Part, Part, and Store.
Report Type

Consumer

List of expired kits
Description

Displays a list of expired kits determined by the specified lot expiration date.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > List of Expired Kits

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1666 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters

Enter the Organization, Kit Part, Store, Lot, Class, and Category.
Lot Expiration Day - Select the date the lot expires.
Report Type

Consumer

List of kits
Description

Displays a list of kits parts determined by the Track as Kit check box on the part record.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > List of Kits
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Kit Part, Store, Lot, Class, and Category.
Include Kit Content List - Select to include the contents of the kit in the report.
Include Kit Costs - Select to include the costs associated to the kit in the report.
Report Type

Consumer

List of outstanding requisition items
Description

Includes outstanding line items for requisitions where Status is not Cancelled.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > List of Outstanding Requisition Items
Parameters

Enter the Organization, For Store, From Store, From Supplier, Part, Requisition, Status,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1667 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Originator, Buyer, Quotation Indicator, Cost Code, and Task.
Req Items on Order - Select to print requisition items that are on order.
Requisitioned Items Not Yet Ordered - Select to print requisition items that have not been
ordered.
All Requisition Items - Select to print all requisition items, regardless of the order status.
Date From and Date To - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data. Date
From and Date To are required fields.
Report Type

Basic

List of stock
Description

Displays stock quantity, reorder level, reserved quantity, and quantity on order grouped by
store and sorted by store, part, and part organization.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > List of Stock
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Store, Part, Part Class, and Supplier.
Non-consignment - Select to print non-consignment items.
Consignment Item - Select to print consignment items.
Selection Options - Select one of the following options:
• All Stock - Select to print all stock records.
• Stock Below Reorder Level - Select to print stock that is below the reorder level.
• Stock At/Below Minimum Level - Select to print stock this is at or below the minimum
level.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1668 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Stock Requiring New Order - Select to print stock requiring a new order.
Report Type

Basic

Monthly part usage chart
Description

The monthly part usage chart shows the part usage for the current month and the previous
five months.
Menu Path

Materials > Parts > Monthly Part Usage Chart
You must first select the record, and then click the Monthly Part Usage Chart tab.
Parameters

Specify the Store.
Report Type

Basic

Monthly usage trends
Description

Prints a report showing monthly usage trends.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Monthly Usage Trends
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Store, Part, and Part Description.
Month From and Month To - Enter the starting and ending month for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1669 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Consumer

Parts currently reserved/allocated
Description

Displays a list of parts currently reserved/allocated.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Parts Currently Reserved/Allocated
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Store, Department, and Part.
Sort By - Select to sort by Part, WO/Activity, or Store.
Date From and Date To - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Part stockouts
Description

Print a list of stockouts (R5STOCKOUTS) for parts.
Menu Path

Material > Reports > Part Stockouts
Parameters

Specify the Store, Part, and Class.
Report Type

Consumer

Physical inventory discrepancy
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1670 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays physical inventory parts and quantities grouped by store, part, and part organization.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Physical Inventory Discrepancy
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Physical Inventory, Part, Store, and Status.
Include Null Quantities - Select to include items with null quantities on the report.
Include Non-Discrepancy Items - Select to include items without any discrepancies on the
report.
Group By - Select to group by Store or Part.
Specify the starting and ending dates for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Basic

Print build kit list
Description

Includes details on kit parts and kits built.
Materials > Reports > Print Build Kit List
Parameters

Session ID - Enter the session ID for which to generate the report.
Include Front Page - Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Mark Confidential - Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Print kit restock list

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1671 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Includes details on the parts held for restocking once a kit is broken up and parts are returned
to stock.
Menu Path

Materials > Kits > Breakup Kit
Parameters

Enter Kit Part, Store, and Kit Lot.
Click Retrieve Parts.
Enter Store, Bin, Repair Bin and relevant parts information.
Click Print Kit Restock List.
Report Type

Consumer

Print physical inventory list
Description

Displays a list of parts with physical inventory.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Print Physical Inventory List
Parameters

Specify the physical inventory parameters for which to run the report. Select one or more of
the following options:
• Print Quantity - Select to print the quantity.
• Order By Bin - Select to sort by bin.
• Print Assets - Select to print assets.
• Discrepancies Only - Select to print stocktake discrepancies only. Stocktake

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1672 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

discrepancies occur when there are discrepancies between Expected Qty. and
Physical Qty. of inventory items.
Report Type

Basic

Print pick ticket
Description

Displays a list of parts needed to perform work on work orders or equipment. Only approved
pick tickets are printed.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Print Pick Ticket
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Activity, From Pick Ticket, To Pick Ticket, and
Store.
Sort By - Select to sort by Pick Ticket or Work Order.
Date From and Date To - Specify the starting and ending date by which to retrieve data. Date
From and Date To are required fields.
Report Type

Basic

Print requisition
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Print Requisition
Description

Select the originator, requisition type, requisition number, status and/or buyer to print a
specific requisition. Otherwise, the report includes all requisitions. Includes option to convert
totals to Euro currency.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1673 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters

Specify the Organization, Originator, Requisition Type, Requisition, Status, and Buyer.
Select Quotation to print the quotation number if a quotation is associated with the
requisition.
Specify the requisition Date for which to retrieve data.
Select Print Attachments to print PDF attachments for the requisition.
Report Type

Basic

Purchase history per item/supplier
Description

Displays all parts and work orders associated with a given supplier.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Purchase History Per Item/Supplier
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Supplier, Part, Work Order, and Task.
Date From and Date To - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Return summary
Description

Displays comprehensive information, per purchase order, about approved returns to
suppliers.
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1674 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Materials > Reports > Return Summary
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Supplier, Store, Part, and Purchase Order.
Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Stock issues history by part
Description

Displays part, stock values grouped by store, part sorted by store, part, and part organization.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Stock Issues History by Part
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Store, From Part, To Part, Class, and Number of Months.
Report Type

Basic

Stock transactions
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Stock Transactions
Description

Lists all approved inventory transactions for a specified period of time.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Part, Part Class, Iss/Recv Entity, Iss/Recv Party, Counter
Entity, Counter Party, Transaction Type, and Consignment Supplier.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1675 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Non-Consignment - Select to print non-consignment items.
Consignment Item - Select to print consignment items.
Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data. Start
Date and End Date are required fields.
Report Type

Basic

Stock value listing by part type
Description

Provides an overview listing all parts in a store and all bin locations for that part. The report is
grouped primarily by store and secondarily by part. The report has two display modes for
listing either stock parts or for repair parts. Quantities and values are calculated for each
location and totaled for each part.
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Stock Value Listing by Part Type
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Part, Store, Part Class , Stock Class, Supplier, Commodity,
Manufacturer Part Number, Manufacturer, Category, Currency, and Part Type.
Non-Consignment - Select to print non-consignment items.
Consignment Item - Select to print consignment items.
Cumulative Total - Select to display the total value for each part.
Display Repair Qty. - Select to display the repair quantity and core value for each part.
Group By - Select to group by Parts, Store, Stock, Supplier, Category, or Commodity.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the date range for which to view inventory levels.
Report Type

Basic

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1676 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Generating project reports
Generate reports related to project functions.

Cost summary by project and area
Description

Prints a summary of costs by project and area.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > Cost Summary By Project and Area
Parameters

Enter the Organization and Project.
Report Type

Consumer

List of WOs for project
Description

Displays a list of work orders created for a project.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > List of WOs for Project
Parameters

Enter the Organization and Project.
If you are using multi-organization security (MOS), and you select a master Project in
your selection criteria, the system only retrieves those work orders created in the specific
organizations to which you have access.
Include Completed - Select to include completed work orders on the report.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1677 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Consumer

Project budget code cost summary
Description

Displays a summary of project costs by budget code.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > Project Budget Code Cost Summary
Parameters

Enter the Organization and Project.
Report Type

Consumer

Project cost breakdown
Description

Displays an overview of cost per project per budget.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > Project Cost Breakdown
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Project, and Budget Code.
Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Project cost summary
Description

Displays a summary of estimated, planned, ordered, actual, and total cost per project.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1678 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > Project Cost Summary
Parameters

Enter the Organization and Project.
Report Type

Consumer

Project POs
Description

Displays a summarized list of purchase orders created to procure materials and external
services.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > Project POs
Parameters

Enter the Organization and Project.
If you are using multi-organization security (MOS), and you select a master Project in
your selection criteria, the system only retrieves those purchase orders created for work
orders in the specific organizations to which you have access.
Include Completed - Select to include completed purchase orders on the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Project summary chart
Description

Displays a chart of costs associated with projects.
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1679 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Projects > Project Summary Chart
You must select a project for which to generate the report, and then click the Project
Summary Chart tab.
Parameters

Specify the Organization and Project.
Select the Include Front Page check box to include a front page with the report.
Select the Mark Confidential check box to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Generating purchasing reports
Generate reports related to purchasing functions.

Approved POs awaiting delivery
Description

Displays a list of purchase orders that have been issued to suppliers but for which goods
have not yet been received. The report includes the supplier, the date the purchase order was
created, the related requisition, and purchase order numbers.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Approved POs Awaiting Delivery
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Supplier, Cost Code, Purchase Order, Part, Store, and Task.
Start Date - Enter the starting date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1680 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Blanket order list
Description

Prints a list of approved blanket orders and blanket order lines that includes the blanket order
header and blanket order lines.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Blanket Order List
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Supplier, Blanket Order, For Store, and Class.
Comments - Select to print comments on the report.
Release Information - Select to include release information on the report.
Terms/Clauses - Select to include terms and clauses information on the report.
Custom Fields - Select to print custom fields on the report.
Approvers - Select to print information about the authorized approvers on the report.
Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

List of invoices
Description

Displays supplier invoice information.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > List of Invoices
Parameters

Enter the Organization and Supplier.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1681 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select to sort by Date Approved, Matched, or Date Recorded.
Start Date - Enter the starting date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Pricing variance
Description

Displays a list of purchase orders where discrepancies exist between the purchase order and
the invoice.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Pricing Variance
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Supplier, Purchase Order, Buyer, Class, and Variance Type.
Group By - Select to group the report data by Purchase Order, Class, Supplier, or Buyer.
Date From and Date To - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Print PO
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Print PO
Description

Includes a purchase order header and both part and service line items. By default, the report
selects the current revision of purchase orders with a status of Ready for printing or
Approved and those that do not have Printed selected. Print purchase orders that do not
have a status of Ready for Printing or Approved, or those that already have Printed
selected by specifying a purchase order number on the Parameter form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1682 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters

Specify the Organization, Store, Purchase Order, and Buyer.
Select Print Attachments to print document attachments associated with purchase orders in
addition to the purchase order.
Select Include All Revisions to include all revisions to the purchase order.
Select Show Internal Part # to include the internal part number.
Select Include Cost Code to include the cost code.
Select Reprint to print purchase orders that have been printed previously.
The system prints only the requisition total in Euro currency.
Specify the order Date for which to retrieve data.
Select Print Images to print all images associated with the purchase order.
Report Type

Basic

Purchase history per PO/supplier
Description

Displays all purchase orders for a given supplier.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Purchase History Per PO/Supplier
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Supplier, and Status.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1683 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

PO cost summary
Description

Displays cost information for purchase orders.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > PO Cost Summary
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Class, Status, Supplier, Cost Code, Buyer, Project, Store,
Currency, and PO Status.
Include Details - Select to display the purchase order details.
Group By - Select to group the report data by Store, Supplier, Cost Code, Buyer, or
Project.
Date From and Date To - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

PO status
Description

Displays a list of purchase order information including cost and receipt information with
optional totals.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > PO Status
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Purchase Order, Status, Class, Supplier, Part, Trade, and
Catalog Reference.
Include Totals - Select to include the purchase order totals on the report.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1684 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Order Date - Specify the order date for which to display purchase orders.
Due Date - Specify the due date for which to displays purchase orders.
Report Type

Consumer

POs awaiting invoicing
Description

Displays a list of purchase orders for goods that have been received but not yet invoiced. The
report includes the related requisition and purchase order numbers, the part or service
ordered, the outstanding quantity, the unit of measure for the items, and the order price per
unit for goods or services.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > POs Awaiting Invoicing
Parameters

Enter the Organization, Supplier, Purchase Order, and Store.
Include Matched - Select to include invoices that have a status of Matched.
Report Type

Basic

Quotation summary
Description

Displays a summary of the quotations from all suppliers associated with an RFQ; allows you
to easily compare all supplier responses received from quotations.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Quotes > Quotation Summary
Parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1685 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the RFQ, Quotation Status, Part, Supplier, Quotation, Trade, Task, and
Organization.
Show RFQs - Select to sort Per Part/Service or Per Supplier.
Report Type

Consumer

Request for quotation
Description

Printed form that is sent to suppliers to elicit part and service quotes. Data includes the
quotation header, requested by, parts, services, and comments sections.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Quotes > Request for Quotation
Parameters

Specify the RFQ,Quotation, Quotation Status, Part, Supplier, Trade, Task, and
Organization.
Include Quotation Comments - Select to include quotation comments in this report.
Include Part/Services Comments - Select to include part/services comments in this report.
Include Cancelled Quotations - Select to include cancelled quotations in this report.
Include Response Values - Select to include response values in this report.
Report Type

Basic

Request for quotation summary
Description

Displays all suppliers, parts, and services that are associated with an RFQ; displays
additional awarded information for parts and services that have been awarded to a supplier.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1686 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Quotes > Request for Quotation Summary
Parameters

Specify the RFQ, Status, Part, Supplier, Organization,Task, and Trade.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Vendor lead time
Description

Print the vendor lead time report. The lead time report displays lead time information from all
purchase orders related to the selected supplier.
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Vendor Lead Time
Parameters

Specify the Supplier, Organization, Purchase Order, Status, and Part.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending dates for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Generating work reports
Generate reports related to work functions.

Actual labor hours against estimated
Description

Displays a list displaying how much time was spent, per trade, on work during a specified time

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1687 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

period versus the original estimate.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Actual Labor Hours Against Estimated
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Trade, and Department.
Group By - Select one of the following options:
• None - Select to not group by day or week.
• Day - Select to group by day.
• Week - Select to group by week.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Batch work order generation summary
Menu Path

Work > Process > Generate/Release WOs
Description

Displays summary information of the work order generated from the Generate/Release WOs
form. This report can only be printed from the Generate/Release WOs form.
Parameters

No parameters
Report Type

Basic

Booked labor by activity

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1688 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Display a graph that calculates the number of booked hours by activity per trade.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Booked Labor By Activity
Parameters

Specify the Organization and Work Order.
Report Type

Consumer

Customer invoice details
Description

Includes details on customer invoices such as charge categories, subcategories, charge
levels, and adjustments.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Customer Invoice Details
Parameters

Specify Organization, Invoice, Customer, Contract, Status, and Contract Type.
Specify Created Start Date and Created End Date for which to generate the report.
Select to generate the invoice details report on the Charge Category Adjustments,
Subcategory Adjustment or Both.
Report Type

Consumer

Daily hours worked per employee
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1689 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays what type of work (normal, overtime, and holiday) a specific employee performed
over a given period and the number of hours.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Daily Hours Worked Per Employee
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Employee, and Hour Type.
If you leave Employee and Hour Type blank, the system retrieves all employee data working
all types of hours.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Daily trade schedule
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Daily Trade Schedule
Description

Displays a daily trade schedule for a specific date or range of dates.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Trade, and Department.
Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data. Date From and Date To are
required fields.
Report Type

Consumer

Delinquent PM summary
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1690 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays a list of employees that are assigned to past due PM work orders. Also displays the
total count of past due PM work orders and total past due work hours.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Delinquent PM Summary
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, and Trade.
Select Include Details to include work order details in the report.

Employee producivity
Description

Prints the employee productivity report.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Employee Productivity
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Employee, Department, and Trade for which to generate the
report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
Include Details - Select to print the employee details with the report.
Report Type

Basic

Equipment profile
Description

Print details for a piece of equipment, or a list of work orders, or PM schedules associated to
the equipment.
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1691 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Reports > Equipment Profile
Parameters

Specify the Equipment, Organization, Type, Class, Category, and Cost Code.
Specify the Work History Start Date and Work History End Date.
Select Include Parts Associated to include associated parts in the report.
Select Include PM Schedules to include PM schedules in the report.
Select Include Work History to include the work history in the report.

Future maintenance cost
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Future Maintenance Cost
Description

Displays estimated present and future maintenance costs for equipment for a selected period.
Report is divided into four sections.

Report Section

Description

Current Work Orders

Displays remaining estimated costs of open
work orders

Deferred Activities

Displays estimated costs of deferred
maintenance

Current PM

Displays remaining estimated costs of open
PM work orders

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1692 of 2039

Forecasted PM

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays estimated costs of PMs that will fall
due within the specified date range

Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, Equipment Type, Equipment Class, and
Department.
Select the Include Work Orders check box to include work orders in this report.
Select the Include Deferred Activities check box to include deferred activities in this report.
Select the Include PMs check box to include PMs in this report.
Select the Include PM Forecasting check box to include PM forecasting in this report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Hours needed for task plans
Description

Displays a listing of work order task plans along with their estimated hours.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Hours Needed for Task Plans
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, and Task Plan.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1693 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Labor required per day or trade
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Labor Required Per Day or Trade
Description

Displays a list of labor required for a particular day.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Trade, and Department.
Select one of the following options:
• Per Day - Select to sort by day.
• Per Trade - Select to sort by trade.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

List of all PM schedules
Menu Path

Work > Reports > List of PM Schedules
Description

Displays a quick report list of PM schedules.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, PM Schedule, Type, WO Type, Supervisor, Priority, and
Nesting Reference for which to generate the report.
Select the Include Totals check box to include the Subtotal and Grand Total fields.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1694 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Basic

List of permit issues
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Permits > List of Permit Issues
Description

Displays which permits were issued for what work orders.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Permit, Work Order, Equipment, and Type.
Select the Include Inactive Permits check box to include inactive permits in the report.
In Sort By, choose to sort by Equipment or Work Order.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

List of PM work orders
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > List of PM Work Orders
Description

Prints the list of maintenance work orders report.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, PM, Maintenance Pattern, Equipment, Assigned
To, Priority, and PM Type for which to generate the report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
In Sort By, select to sort the report records by Due Date of the PM work orders or

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1695 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Scheduled Start Date of the PM work orders.
Report Type

Basic

List of work orders
Menu Path

Work > Reports > List of Work Orders
Description

Displays a quick report list of work orders.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Department, Equipment, Status, Assigned To,
Assigned By, Priority, PM Schedule, Location, and WO Type for which to generate the
report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
Select the Include Totals check box to include the Subtotal and Grand Total fields.
Report Type

Consumer

List of WOs bypassed due to nesting
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > List of WOs Bypassed Due to Nesting
Description

Displays a list of PM work orders that were bypassed because they were superseded by
another PM work order.
Parameters

Specify the Organization and Department.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1696 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Report Type

Consumer

Long term WO list
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Long Term WO List
Description

Displays a list of work orders due over a longer period of time (six months, for example) in
addition to projecting PM work orders that will be coming due.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, WO Type, Priority, Trade, Department, Location,
PM, Work Order, Project, Type, Assigned To, and Assigned By.
Select the Search MEC WOs to search multiple equipment work orders.
Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data. Start Date and End Date are
required fields.
Report Type

Basic

Material requirements analysis
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Material Requirements Analysis
Description

Displays a list of stock materials needed to complete a specific work order.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, PM, Equipment, WO Type, Priority, Trade,
Location, Project, Type, and Work Order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1697 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select Direct Purchase Due Date is After Start Date to include stock items where the direct
purchase date is after the work order start date.
Select Qty Required > Qty in Stock to include stock items where the quantity required for
the work order is greater than the quantity in stock.
Select Search MEC WOs to include MEC work orders on the report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Meter based PM due
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Meter Based PM Due Report
Description

Displays a list of meter-based PMs due by a certain date.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, PM, Meter UOM, WO Class, and Department.
In Sort By, select to sort by Equipment, PM, or Estimated Due Date.
In Due By, specify the due date for which to print the report. Due By is a required field.
Report Type

Consumer

Monthly scheduling details
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Monthly Scheduling Details
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1698 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays a row calendar showing monthly scheduling details such as scheduled employee
labor, planned parts, scheduled tools, and daily employee exceptions.
Parameters

Specify the Organization and Department.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Select the Scheduled Labor check box to display labor previously scheduled to work orders
for the organization and department.
Select the Employee Exceptions check box to display employee labor exceptions for the
department. Exceptions include days the employees cannot work due to employee time off
and company holidays.
Select the Planned Parts check box to display parts planned for work orders for the
organization and department.
Select the Scheduled Tools check box to display tools scheduled for work orders for the
organization and department.
Report Type

Consumer

Overdue vehicle issues and returns
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Contract Management > Overdue Vehicle Issue/Return List
Description

Displays all overdue vehicle rentals including vehicle issues and returns for customer rental
contracts. Vehicles are considered overdue when they remain unreturned by the customer
after the specified return date and time on the rental contract, or the vehicle has not been
issued by the specified rental date and time on the rental contract.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Vehicle, Vehicle Type, Created By, and Location.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1699 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the Date for which to generate the report. All vehicles which have not been issued or
returned by the estimated issue date and the estimated return date on the rental contract,
after the date you enter here, are included in the report.
Select one of the following options for generating the report:
• If Overdue Issues is selected, the report generated includes only overdue issue
transactions.
• If Overdue Returns is selected, the report generated includes only overdue return
transactions.
• If Both is selected, the report generated includes both overdue vehicle issues and
overdue vehicle returns.
Report Type

Basic

Part failures
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Part Failures
Description

Displays the percentage of parts that failed versus parts that were issued. Data for this report
comes from failures listed on the Part Failures page and the Parts page of the Work Orders
form.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Part, Asset ID, Problem Code, Failure Code, Action Code, and
Cause Code.
Specify the Date From and Date To for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Permits for WOs

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1700 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > Permits > Permits for WOs
Description

Displays copies of work permits for a particular work order.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Permit Reference, Permit, and Work Order.
Report Type

Consumer

PM Compliance
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > PM Compliance
Description

Includes compliance details for PM work orders.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, PM, Department, Equipment, Assigned To, and Assigned By
for which to generate the report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Consumer

PM due overview
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > PM Due Overview
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1701 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Prints the PM due overview report.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, PM, Maintenance Pattern, and Equipment for which to generate
the report.
In Include, select to print the Fixed and Variable, Meter, Duplicates, Maintenance Pattern,
and Maintenance Pattern Meter sections in the report.
Report Type

Basic

PM forecasting
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > PM Forecasting
Description

Displays a printed representation of a PM forecasting session similar to what is displayed on
the actual PM Forecasting form.
Parameters

None
Report Type

Basic

PM schedule profile
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > PM Schedule Profile
Description

Displays a list of PM schedule details and activity information along with optional task
instructions and route information.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1702 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Parameters

Specify the PM Schedule, Organization, Type, Class, Trade, and Equipment. Select
Include Task Plan Instructions to print with the report.
Select Include Route Equipment to print with the report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Print customer charges
Description

Displays a list of work order charges that are the responsibility of the customer.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Asset Management Services > Print Customer Charges
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Customer, Department, Equipment, and Project.
Completed Work Orders - Select to include completed work orders only.
Released Work Orders - Select to include released work orders only.
Both - Select to include completed and released work orders.
Completed From and Completed To - Specify the starting and ending date for which to
retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Print customer contract
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1703 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Prints a contract for a specific customer.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Asset Management Services > Print Customer Contract
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Customer Contract, and Customer.
Pricing Schedules - Select to display pricing schedules on the report.
Arranged WO Types - Select to display arranged work order types.
Custom Tariffs/Part Charges - Select to display custom tariffs and part charges if Custom
Trade Rates and Custom Part Charges are selected on the related Pricing Schedule Record
View page.
Related Customer Contracts - Select to display unfinished/approved related customer
contracts on the report.
Fixed Payments - Select to display fixed payments on the report.
Calculated Work Orders - Select to display calculated work orders on the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Print invoice
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Asset Management Services > Print Invoice
Description

Prints an invoice for a specific customer and work order.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Invoice, Customer, Work Order, and Status.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1704 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Consumer

Print permit to work
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Permit to Work
Description

Report displays a list of all permits to work with Status of Approved or Active. Includes all
comments for safety records and lockout/tagout records, user defined fields, lockout/tagout
tags, and hazard rating system information.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Permit to Work, Equipment, PTW Type, Department, and Risk.
Specify the Required Start Date and Required End Date for which to retrieve data.
Select Include Comments to include the permit to work comments.
Select Include Safety Comments to print safety comments for the permit to work.
Select Include LOTO Comments to print lockout/tagout comments for the permit to work.
Select Include User Defined Fields to print user defined fields added to the permit to work.
Select Include LOTO Tags to print tags for lockout/tagout procedures implemented for the
permit to work.
Select Include Hazard Rating System to print health hazards, flammability, instability, and
special hazard records for the permit to work.
Report Type

Basic

Print short WO cards
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Orders > Print Short WO Cards
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1705 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays an abbreviated version of the Print Work Order report, including work order cost.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Department, PM Schedule, Type, Equipment,
Location, Priority, WO Type, Trade, Project, Equipment Criticality, Status, Customer,
Property, Building, Floor/Unit, Assigned To, Assigned By, Person Responsible, From
Point, To Point, Standard WO, and Manufacturer.
Select the Mark Confidential check box to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Select Scheduled Date Range to print the work order card for the scheduled date range.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Select Work Order Custom Fields to print custom fields added for work orders on the work
order card.
Select Equipment Custom Fields to print custom fields added for equipment on the work
order card.
Select Hide Cost Values to hide cost values on the work order card.
Select Prevent Update Print Flag to prevent users from marking the records returned
printed.
Select Print Attachments to print document attachments associated with work orders in
addition to the work order card.
Select Print MEC Attachments to print MEC document attachments associated with work
orders in addition to the work order card.
Select Search MEC Work Orders to search multiple equipment work orders.
Select Work Order User Defined Fields to print user defined fields added for work orders on
the work order card.
Select Equipment User Defined Fields to print user defined fields for equipment on the work
order card.
Select the Activity User Defined Fields check box to print user defined fields for activities on
the work order card.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1706 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select Show Defer Maintenance Activities to display all work order activities where Defer
Maintenance is selected.
Select the Barcode check box to print barcodes on the work order card.
Select Print Images to print images associated with work orders in addition to the work order
card.
You can only print document attachments that are Adobe Acrobat Portable
Document Format (.PDF) files.
Select Include Actual Parts to print parts added for work orders on the work order card.
Select Equipment Comments to include all comments associated with equipment.
Select Reprint to reprint the work order card.
Select Include Child Work Orders to include child work orders on the work order card.
Select By Responsible Person to print the work order activity details by the person
responsible on the work order card.
Report Type

Basic

Print work order
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Orders > Print Work Order
Description

Includes work order details, task listing, diagnostics, repair details, and related equipment
information.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Department, PM Schedule, Type, Equipment,
Location, Priority, WO Type, Trade, Project, Equipment Criticality, Status, Customer,
Property, Building, Floor/Unit, Assigned To, Assigned By, Person Responsible, From
Point, and To Point.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1707 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select Scheduled Date Range to print work orders based on the Target Date.
Select Reprint to print work orders that have been printed previously.
Select Include Child Work Orders to print child work orders on the work order card.
Select Work Order Custom Fields to print custom fields added for work orders on the work
order card.
Select the Work Order User Defined Fields check box to print user defined fields for work
orders.
Select Equipment Custom Fields to print custom fields added for equipment on the work
order card.
Select the Equipment User Defined Fields check box to print user defined fields added for
equipment.
Select the Activity User Defined Fields check box to print user defined fields for activities.
Select Print Attachments to print document attachments associated with work orders in
addition to the work order card.
You can only print document attachments that are Adobe Acrobat Portable
Document Format (.PDF) files.
Select By Responsible Person to group report data by the person responsible.
Select Include Linear Reference Details to print linear reference details on the work order
card.
Select Include MEC Work Orders to print MEC work orders on the work order card.
Select Print MEC Attachments to print MEC document attachments associated with work
orders in addition to the work order card.
Select Print Attachments to print files attached to the work order with the report. Attached
files may originate from the following sources: the associated work order, equipment, projects,
departments, parent work orders, and locations.
Select Print Images to print all images associated with the work order.
Select Include Customer Requests to print customer requests on the work order card.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1708 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select Include Nonconformities to print nonconformities on the work order card.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Print work order - comprehensive
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Orders > Print Work Order - Comprehensive
Description

Includes comprehensive work order details, task listing, diagnostics, repair details, and
related equipment information.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Department, PM Schedule, Equipment Type,
Equipment, Location, Priority, WO Type, Trade, Equipment Criticality, Status, Assigned
To, Assigned By.
Select the Mark Confidential check box to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Select the Scheduled Date Range check box to print work orders that have at least one
person scheduled between the specified start and end dates.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Select Reprint to print work orders that have been printed previously.
Select the Include Child Work Orders check box to print the child work orders.
Select the Work Order Custom Fields check box to print custom fields added for work
orders.
Select the Print Attachments check box to print files attached to the work order with the
report. Attached files may originate from the following sources: the associated work order,
equipment, projects, departments, parent work orders, and locations.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1709 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You can only print document attachments that are Adobe Acrobat Portable
Document Format (.PDF) files.
Select the By Person Responsible check box to repeat entire work order per activity and
person responsible.
Select the Barcode check box to print barcodes.
Select the Work Order User Defined Fields check box to print user defined fields for work
orders.
Select the Equipment User Defined Fields check box to print user defined fields added for
equipment.
Select the Activity User Defined Fields check box to print user defined fields for activities.
Select the Print Images check box to print all images associated with the work orders.
Select the Include Comments check box to print the work order comments.
Select the Include Task Plan Checklist check box to print task plan checklist information.
Select the Include Nonconformities check box to print nonconformities.
Select the Repeat Header check box if you want the work order header details to print with
each work order activity in the report. For every work order activity printed with the report, the
header information for the work order will also be printed with the report.
Select the Not Applicable check box
Select the Item Comments check box.

Proof of delivery
Description

Displays proof that a work order was delivered or performed.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Proof of Delivery
Parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1710 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work Order - Specify the work order for which to run the report.
Include Front Page - Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Mark Confidential - Select to print a confidential banner in the title of the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Qualification expiration
Description

Displays a list of qualification expiration’s and expiration dates for an employee based on the
date range entered. Select to generate the report for a single employee or a group of
employees.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Qualifications > Qualification Expiration Report
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Employee Code, Employee Class, Employee Type, Trade,
Department, Qualification, and Qualification Class.
Sort By - Select to sort by Employee, Trade, Organization, Department, or Qualification.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Qualification requirement
Description

Displays a list of qualifications that are required for an employee to perform a trade or task for
which they are not currently qualified. Select to generate the report for a single trade or task,
or for a group of trades or tasks.
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1711 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Reports > Qualifications > Qualification Requirement Report
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Employee, Employee Class, Employee Type, Trade, Trade
Class, Task, Department, and Qualification.
Report Type

Basic

Resource load graph
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > PM Forecasting > Forecasting tab
Description

Displays a graph report listing resource data for the selected PM work orders.
Parameters

None
Report Type

Basic

Response time by department
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Response Time By Department
Description

Displays department response time to work orders.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, Work Order Type, Start Date, and End Date.
Select the Include Details check box to include work order details.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1712 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select the Include Chart check box to display a bar chart.
Report Type

Basic

Safety review required
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Safety Review Required
Description

Displays a list of all safety, permits to work, and lockout/tagout records where Safety Review
Required is selected for PM schedules, equipment, parts, and standard work orders. The
report retrieves the records that have not been previously reviewed.
Parameters

Specify Organization.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Select the Include Safety Records check box to print safety records.
Select the Include Permit Records check box to print permit records.
Select the Include LOTO Records check box to print lockout/tagout records.
Select the Include Out of Service check box to print all PM, equipment, standard work order,
and part records marked Out of Service, but which meet the specified report criteria.
Report Type

Consumer

Safety work order
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Safety Work Order
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1713 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays a list of all work orders where EVT_SAFETY is selected.
Parameters

Specify Requested By, Assigned To, Priority, Department, and Organization.
Choose to include safety work orders with the following statuses:
• Select Released to display safety work orders with a released status in the report.
• Select Completed to display safety work orders with a completed status in the report.
• Select Both to display safety work orders with a released and work orders with a
completed status in the report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Schedule attainment
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Schedule Attainment
Description

Displays a summary of scheduled activities. View the number of activities that were
scheduled and worked on the same date, the number of activities that were scheduled but not
started on the same date, the number of activities that were worked on and not scheduled on
the same date, as well as the percentage of activities scheduled that were worked on the
same date.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Trade, Department, and Person Responsible.
Specify the Date From and Date To for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1714 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Scheduled activities
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Scheduled Activities
Description

Displays information for scheduled activities.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Trade, Department, Maintenance Equipment, and
Person Responsible.
Specify the Date From and Date To for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Scheduled vs. actual - detail
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Scheduled – Actual Detail
Description

Displays detailed schedule activities. Depending on how you set up the report criteria, you
can review the schedule date for scheduled work (but not started) on the same day, activities
scheduled and worked on the same day, or work done but not scheduled on the same day.
(You might have multiple lines for some activities.)
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Trade, Department, and Person Responsible.
In Show Details of Activities Where, select one of the following options:
• Scheduled but Not Worked on the Same Date
• Worked and Scheduled on the Same Date

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1715 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Worked but Not Scheduled
Specify the Date From and Date To for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Service request chart
Description

Displays a graph that calculates the number of service requests by various groupings.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Call Center > Service Request Chart
Parameters
Enter Type, Assigned To, Department, Employee, Supplier, Service Category, Service
Problem Code, and Status.
Request Date and Promise Date - Specify the requested date and the promised date for the
service request.
Report Type

Consumer

Shift employee
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Shift Employee
Description

Displays a list of employees on a shift grouped by department.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, Trade, and Shift.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1716 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Short customer invoice
Description

Includes short details on customer invoices.
The report does not include details such as charge categories, subcategories, charge
levels, and adjustments.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Short Customer Invoice
Parameters

Enter Organization, Invoice, Customer, Contract, Status, and Contract Type.
Enter Created Start Date and Created End Date for which to generate the report.
Report Type

Consumer

Short term WO list (activities)
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Short Term WO List (Activities)
Description

Displays a list of work orders due within the near future, including their activities, starting and
ending dates, and estimated labor hours.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, WO Type, Priority, Trade, Department , Location,
PM, Work Order, Project, Type, Equipment Criticality, and Status.
Report Type

Consumer

Short term WO list (WOs)

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1717 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Short Term WO List (WOs)
Description

Displays a list of work orders due within a short period of time (a week, for example); does not
project PM work orders.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, WO Type, Priority, Trade, Department, Location,
PM, Work Order, Project, Type, Equipment Criticality, Status, Assigned To, and
Scheduling Group.
Select Search MEC WOs to search multiple equipment work orders.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

Standard work order frequency
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Standard WO Frequency
Description

Displays the frequency of standard work orders.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, and Department for which to generate the report.
Specify the Standard WO if you would like to generate the report to display the frequency of
that standard work order.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1718 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Basic

Tool usage
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Tool Usage
Description

Displays a list of work orders per tool.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Work Order, Department, and Tools.
Specify the Date From and Date To for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Vehicle rental history
Description

Displays the vehicle rental history.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Contract Management > Vehicle Rental History
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Vehicle, Vehicle Type, Class, Issue To, Created By, Customer,
Location, and Status for which to generate the report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to generate the report.
Include - Select the type of records to include in the report, e.g., select Overdue
Transactions Only or All Transactions.
Overdue Issue Buffer (Hours) - Specify number of hours after the estimated issue date
before the issued rental is considered overdue. This applies to overdue transactions only.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1719 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Overdue Return Buffer (Hours) - Specify the number of hours after the estimated return
date before the returned rental is considered overdue. This applies to overdue transactions
only.
Include Customer Details - Select to print the customer details associated to the vehicle
rental contract.
Group By - Select to group the report data by Vehicle, Estimated Issue Date, or Estimated
Return Date.
Report Type

Basic

WO aging
Menu Path

Work > Reports > WO Aging
Description

Provides counts of work orders, per work order type, that are 1-10, 11-30, 31-60, 61-90, or
over 90 days overdue.
Parameters

Specify the Organization and WO Type.
Report Type

Consumer

WO backlog
Description

Displays a list of backlogged work orders.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > WO Backlog Report
Parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1720 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Enter the Organization, Department, Trade, Type, Equipment, PM, Location, WO Type,
Priority, Equipment Criticality, Status, Assigned To, and Scheduling Group.
Warranty - Select to display the equipment warranty associated with the work order.
Show MEC Work Orders - Select to display multiple equipment work orders.
Sort By - Select to sort by Start Date, Equipment, or Location.
Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

WO cost list
Description

Displays the costs of a work order.
Menu Path

Work > Reports > WO Cost List
Parameters

Enter the Organization and Work Order.
Start Date and End Date - Enter the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

WO on-time delivery by employee
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > WO On-Time Delivery by Employee
Description

Displays a summary or detailed report of on-time work order (released and completed)

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1721 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

statistics by employee.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Employee Code, Task, Class, Requested By, Problem Code,
Priority, Department,Work Order, and WO Type.
In Report Type, select to print a Summary, Detail, or Complete version of the report.
Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data. Date From and Date To are
required fields.
Report Type

Consumer

WO on-time delivery by trade
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > WO On-Time Delivery by Trade
Description

Displays a summary or detailed report of on-time work order (released and completed)
statistics by trade.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Trade, Task, Assigned To, Class, Requested By, Problem
Code, Priority, Department, Work Order, and WO Type.
For Report Type, select to print a Summary, Detail, or Complete version of the report.
Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data. Date From and Date To are
required fields.
Report Type

Consumer

WO statistics
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1722 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Reports > WO Statistics
Description

Displays statistical backlog information including the number of work orders that are:
• backlogged according to Date From
• scheduled to begin within the date range
• backlogged at Start Date but completed within the date range
• scheduled to begin within the date range and completed within the date range
Parameters

Specify the Organization and WO Type.
Select Show Totals to display the work order totals on the report.
Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data. Date From and Date To are
required fields.
Report Type

Consumer

Work by employee
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Work by Employee
Description

Displays a list of all work orders where booked labor for an employee has been applied.
Parameters

Specify the Employee, Work Order, Equipment, Organization, and Status.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1723 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Consumer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1724 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

HxGN EAM User Tasks for GIS
This guide shows you how HxGN EAM links with Esri GIS, how to synchronize records, how
to search GIS in HxGN EAM, and how to use maps in HxGN EAM. This guide is a user guide
for HxGN EAM with GIS.

Linking EAM equipment and GIS features
When integrating HxGN EAM with Esri's GIS (Geographical Information System) package,
both programs should reflect an accurate representation of your company assets. You may
have an EAM equipment record that has not been defined in the GIS system or a GIS feature
that has not been defined in the EAM system. If you want to view a piece of equipment on a
GIS map, create a corresponding GIS feature for the EAM equipment record. Likewise, if you
want access to EAM functionality, such as creating and scheduling work orders for a GIS
feature, create a corresponding EAM equipment record for the GIS feature.
Corresponding equipment and features are linked together with a GIS object identification
number (GIS ID) in HxGN Eam and GISOBJID in Esri.

Processing rules for defining equipment records within Esri
See the list of processing rules followed when HxGN EAM equipment records are
automatically created for GIS features you have created within Esri:
Contact your system administrator for more information regarding these processing
rules.
Processing rules

• A GIS feature must reside within a layer that contains the GISOBJID attribute before
you can create a corresponding equipment record.
• Equipment records are created based on the field mappings defined for the feature’s
layer. If a field mapping has not been defined, the field is populated based on the GIS
profile defined on the user’s default preference record for the layer.
If a field mapping for an attribute exists, the equipment field is always populated
based on the data of the attribute, even if the attribute value is empty and the GIS profile
value contains data.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1725 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Field mappings are not defined for Layer, Location X, and Location Y. The
equipment records are created based on an implied mapping where GIS is the
owner and the data is automatically mapped to the Layer, Location X, and
Location Y fields in HxGN EAM.
• If a feature is a line or polygon feature, the HxGN EAM Location X and Location
Y are populated based on the feature’s center point.
• If more than one GIS attribute is mapped to a single HxGN EAM field, the data is
concatenated into the single field based on the Sequence and Delimiter values on the
mapping record.
Likewise, if a GIS attribute that contains concatenated data is mapped into more than
one HxGN EAM field, the data is parsed based on the Sequence and Delimiter values
on the mapping record.
• The equipment is automatically defined as an Asset record if a field mapping does not
exist for the equipment type.
• The equipment code of the equipment record is assigned based on any existing field
mapping. If a feature attribute is mapped to the equipment code field, the equipment
code is assigned based on the field mapping even if the AUTOANUM installation
parameter is set to Yes.
If no field mapping exists for the equipment code, an equipment code is automatically
generated even if AUTOANUM is set to No.
• The following HxGN EAM fields can be unique per HxGN EAM organization:
• Class
• Location
• Position
• Parent
• PO
• Part
This organization may or may not be the same organization of the equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1726 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

record.
If there is a mapping record for Class, Location, Position, Parent, PO, or Part,
these must also get populated: the organization of Class, Location, Position,
Parent, PO, or Part. If you map data into these fields, you must also map the
organization field for each of them.
If a field mapping does not exist for the organization of Class, Location, Position,
Parent, PO, or Part, the information is populated based on the following:
• If the mapped value for Class, Location, Position, Parent, PO, or Part belongs
to a single organization: The organization is copied.
• If the mapped value for Class, Location, Position, Parent, PO, or Part belongs
to multiple organizations:
An attempt is made to populate the organization based on the GIS profile defined
on the user’s default preference record for the layer.
• If the mapped value for Class, Location, Position, Parent, PO, or Part belongs
to multiple organizations and there is not a default GIS profile:
An attempt is made to populate the organization based on the organization of the
equipment record.

Defining EAM equipment (Esri)
For every GIS feature within Esri that you want to integrate with EAM, define a corresponding
EAM equipment record.
With the ArcGIS Pro add-in, equipment is created through the synchronize records option
only.
Depending on your system configuration, an equipment record is automatically
created in EAM as soon as you save a new feature, and then the Create HxGN EAM
Equipment pop-up window is shown to notify you of the transaction. Contact your system
administrator for more information.
1. Open an existing map.
2. Select the GIS feature(s) for which to define equipment records, and then click Create

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1727 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

HxGN EAM Equipment. Esri connects to HxGN EAM, and then:
a. Verifies that you are authorized to define equipment within the organization you
specified on the profile.
b. Creates the equipment record in EAM.
c. Shows success and error messages in the Result pop-up window.
d. Defines an EAM equipment record for each GIS feature with a success message.
3. Click Close.
4. Optionally, to save this data, right-click, and then select Save As. Select the file in which
to save the data, and then click Save. The data in the file is saved, e.g., if you receive
error messages because the corresponding EAM equipment records are not
successfully defined for the GIS features, save the data.
Use the saved list of data to identify those GIS features for which you still need
to create equipment records. Correct the error identified in the Result column, and then
complete the process to define equipment records within Esri again.

Processing rules for defining GIS features within EAM
See the following list of processing rules that are followed when creating corresponding GIS
features for equipment records you have created within HxGN EAM:
Contact your system administrator for more information regarding these processing
rules.
Processing rules

• Features are created based on the field mappings defined for the selected layer. If a
field mapping has not been defined, the field is populated based on the GIS profile
defined on the user’s default preference record for the selected layer.
If a field mapping exists, the attribute is always populated based on the data of
the equipment field, even if the field’s value is empty and the GIS profile value contains
data.
• If more than one HxGN EAM field is mapped to a single GIS attribute, the data is
concatenated into the single attribute based on the Sequence and Delimiter.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1728 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Likewise, if an HxGN EAM field that contains concatenated data is mapped into more
than one GIS attribute, the data is parsed based on the Sequence and Delimiter values
on the mapping record.

Defining GIS features in EAM
1. Open the Assets, Positions, or Systems form.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify the information necessary to define the piece of equipment.
4. Specify the profile that GIS should use to create the GIS feature.
5. Click Save Record. A GIS ID number is generated.
Depending on your system configuration, a GIS ID number may not be
automatically generated.
• The Create GIS Feature pop-up window is shown after you click Save Record,
specify the Layer, Location X, and Location Y for the GIS feature, and then click
Submit. The record is saved, and a GIS ID number is generated.
• If the Create GIS Feature button is enabled, click Create GIS Feature after you
click Save Record. Specify the Layer, Location X, and Location Y for the GIS
feature, and then click Submit. The record is saved and a GIS ID number is
generated.
6. Synchronize features with equipment records so that the corresponding feature is
created within GIS.

Synchronizing records (Esri)
Synchronize HxGN EAM and Esri’s GIS to ensure both systems contain a complete and
accurate list of corresponding features/equipment. Synchronize attributes to ensure that
corresponding features and equipment reflect the same attribute values.

Synchronizing equipment with features (Esri)
Search for GIS features with no corresponding defined HxGN EAM equipment records, view a
list of discrepancies, and create corresponding equipment records for the existing features.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1729 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Open an existing map, and then click HxGN EAM Synchronize Records.
2. Specify this information:
Layer - Select the layer for which to view features without corresponding equipment
records.
3. Select Consider only features selected on the map to only compare features that are
selected on the map.
4. Click View Discrepancies.
5. Select the features for which you want to create corresponding equipment records.
All of the features are automatically selected. Remove individual features from the list by
clearing the line.
6. Click Create Equipment. Corresponding equipment records are created within HxGN
EAM.
Result and Creation Date/Time are automatically populated, and all features are
unselected for which corresponding equipment records were created.

• If the corresponding equipment record cannot be created for a selected feature,
the reason is displayed in Result. The feature remains selected.
• You must have insert privileges in HxGN EAM to create an equipment record.
Contact your system administrator for more information.
• The feature’s existing GISOBJID number is assigned to the equipment record. If
the feature does not have a GISOBJID number, one is automatically generated.
The equipment record’s Layer, Location X, and Location Y are automatically
populated. If the feature is not a point feature, Location X and Location Y are
automatically populated for its corresponding equipment record based on the
center of the feature.

Synchronizing features with equipment (Esri)
Search for HxGN EAM equipment records with no corresponding defined GIS features, view a
list of discrepancies, and create corresponding features for the existing equipment records.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1730 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Open an existing map, and then click HxGN EAM Synchronize Records.
2. Click the GIS tab.
3. Specify this information:
Layer - Select the layer for which to view equipment records without corresponding
features.
4. Click View Discrepancies. Layer, Location X, and Location Y for each equipment
record are automatically populated if available.
Only equipment records for which you have query web service permissions are
displayed. Contact your system administrator for more information.
5. Select the equipment records for which you want to create corresponding features.
All of the equipment records are automatically selected. Remove individual records from
the list by clearing the check box.
6. Specify this information:
Layer - Select a layer for each equipment record for which you want to create
corresponding features.
Location X and Location Y - Specify the X and Y coordinates for each equipment
record for which you want to create corresponding features.

• Highlight the equipment record within the list, click Record, and then click the
location on the map within Esri on which to place the feature. The X and Y
coordinates are determined and Location X and Location Y are automatically
populated.
• If the selected layer contains line or polygon features, click on the map more than
once to include all necessary coordinates for the feature. The additional X and Y
coordinates are saved.
• If you enter Location X and Location Y with the Record button and then need to
edit the fields with the Record button, you must first right-click on the equipment
record, and then select Clear Map Coordinates.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1731 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

7. Click Create Feature(s). Corresponding features within Esri’s GIS are created for each
selected equipment record and the newly created features are highlighted on the map.
Result and Creation Date/Time are populated, and all equipment records are
unselected for which corresponding features were created.
If the system cannot create a corresponding feature for a selected equipment
record, the reason is displayed in Result. The equipment record remains selected.

Synchronizing attributes (Esri)
HxGN EAM and Esri’s GIS attributes may be synchronized based on the field mappings
defined for each layer. The system compares the attributes of corresponding
features/equipment (based on the GISOBJID/GIS ID), provides you with a list of
discrepancies, and enables you to synchronize the attribute values.
Field mappings are not defined for a feature/equipment record’s layer, location X, and location
Y. The system synchronizes based on an implied mapping where GIS is the owner and the
data is automatically mapped to the Layer, Location X, and Location Y fields in HxGN EAM.
If a feature is a line or polygon feature, the system populates the HxGN EAM Location X and
Location Y based on the feature’s center point. Contact your system administrator for more
information.
We recommend synchronizing features and equipment prior to synchronizing
attributes.
1. Open an existing map.
2. Click HxGN EAM Synchronize Records.
3. Specify this information:
Map - Specify the map for which to synchronize attributes.
Layer - Select the layer for which to view attribute discrepancies.
4. Select Consider only features selected on the map to only consider features that are
selected on the map.
5. Click View Discrepancies. The system displays features for which the system locates a
corresponding equipment record based on the GISOBJID, but for which there are
attribute discrepancies.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1732 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system only considers mapped attributes that have an Action of Copy.
Contact your system administrator for more information.
You must have query web service permissions in HxGN EAM to view discrepancies.
Contact your system administrator for more information.
6. Select the features for which you want to synchronize attribute discrepancies.
The system automatically selects all of the features. Remove individual features from
the list by clearing the line.
To select all lines at once, click Select All. To clear all lines at once, click
Unselect All.
7. Click Synchronize Discrepancies.
The system synchronizes attributes based on the values contained within the owner
system of the field mapping record. Contact your system administrator for more
information.
The system displays an error message in either HxGN EAM Result or GIS Result for
any record whose discrepancies cannot be synchronized.
You must have update web service permissions in HxGN EAM to synchronize
discrepancies. Contact your system administrator for more information.
8. Click Close.

Synchronizing attribute details (Esri)
1. Open an existing map.
2. View attribute discrepancies.
Do not click Synchronize Discrepancies.
3. Highlight the feature for which to view discrepancy details, and then click the Details
tab. Layer, Equipment, FID, Description, and Org. are automatically populated, and a
list of field mapping records is displayed for the feature.
Only discrepancy mapping records with an Action of Copy are displayed.
Contact your system administrator for more information.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1733 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

4. View the discrepancy records. GIS Attribute and its data in GIS Value are displayed
and the corresponding EAM Attribute and its data in EAM Value. The Owner indicates
the system from which the data will be copied during synchronization.

• If multiple GIS attributes are mapped to a single EAM attribute or vice-versa, the
system lists the attributes on separate lines but groups them together.
• During synchronization, the system concatenates or parses data according to the
Sequence and Delimiter defined on the field mapping record. Contact your
system administrator for more information. If the system must parse data because
one field is mapped to multiple fields, it verifies that the number of fields to which
to map data matches the instances of concatenated data in the source field. If it
does not, the system does not synchronize the data. If, however, the source field
in the owner system contains a null value, the system copies the null value to the
multiple fields in the other system and overwrites any data that those fields
originally contained.
5. Specify this information:
New Owner Value - Specify a value to override the current data contained within the
owner system. During synchronization, the system writes the new value to the owner
system and then copies the value to the other system.
You cannot enter a New Owner Value if there is a discrepancy with a Layer,
Location X, or Location Y. These values are populated automatically based on the
feature’s actual map location.
6. Click Synchronize Discrepancies.
The attributes are synchronized based on the values contained within the owner system
or based on the values entered in New Owner Value.
An error message is shown in either HxGN EAM Result or GIS Result for any
record whose discrepancies cannot be synchronized.
Click Next Record or Previous Record to view the details of the next or previous
discrepancy record within the list on the Synchronize Attributes page.
7. Click Close.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1734 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Performing a GIS map search in EAM
Perform a GIS map search to locate equipment according to address or equipment type, such
as asset, position, or system.
Map layers are searched. A layer contains a set of thematic data, such as streets, hydrants,
or pipes. A GIS map contains multiple layers, which create overlays of geographical
information.
In EAM GIS maps are searched based on active and buffer layers. The active layer is the
layer in which a search originates. If your search involves multiple layers, the buffer layer is
the layer in which the equipment for which you are searching resides, e.g., your GIS map
contains a Pipe layer and a Hydrant layer. You want to locate a fire hydrant based on the
location of a specific pipe. Select the Pipe layer as your active layer and the Hydrant layer as
your buffer layer. The pipe in the Pipe layer is searched and fire hydrants found within the
Hydrant layer are returned.
See the following image:

Once you have performed a map search, use the GIS Map Search toolbar to modify the map
view.
If you use geocoding services, address searches are performed based on the service as
defined in installation parameter GISGEOSV. Contact your system administrator for more
information.
The screen display and functionality endpoint depend upon your GISSERV and
GISGEOSV installation parameters. GISSERV must contain a REST URL for the map service
and GISGEOSV must be set to the geocoding service REST endpoint to experience the full
features of this screen which include:
• By default, the startup view for this screen is set to Record View and the map is loaded
on the full screen.
• The GIS Attributes pop-up window is displayed as you navigate to the equipment List
View screen.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1735 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• The new map screen features a floating pop-up window which displays the GIS
Attributes and the Action button is now located at the bottom of the pop-up.
• The Action button is also accessible:
• as a right-click option on the equipment grid and work order grids
• on the List View page near the Export To Excel and Save Layout icons.

Performing a map search in EAM
Perform a map search to search for equipment in one layer. Enable the advanced search
option to search for equipment across multiple layers. In addition, you may apply a GIS filter
and specify a search radius for each selected layer.
Some of the map search features display and function differently based upon your
GISSERV and GISGEOSV installation parameters.
GISSERV must be set to mapservice REST endpoint URL and GISGEOSV must be set to
Geocode service REST endpoint URL published on ArcGIS Server to experience the full
features of this screen. Set the installation parameters according to the following format:
For GISSERV use the following format:
http://<arcgisserver:port>/arcgis/rest/services/<servicename>/MapServer
For GISGEOSV use the following format:
http://<arcgisserver:port>/arcgis/rest/services/<servicename>/GeocodeServer
1. Select Equipment > GIS Map Search.
Depending upon your GISSERV and GISGEOSV installation parameter
settings, the GIS Map Search screen opens with the map search options displayed, or
in Record View with the map displayed. See Performing a GIS map search in EAM.
2. Click Search.
If GISSERV is set to REST endpoint URL, the map will be loaded and the map
toolbar will display. The map toolbar will display the Search icon.
Specify your search criteria, and then click Search to search for map records. The GIS

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1736 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Attributes floating pop-up window is displayed with the Options drop-down available at
the bottom of the pop-up.
3. Specify this information:
Map - Specify the map for which to perform the search.
Map is available only when GISMAPS installation parameter is set to
Organization or Department.
Search For
To search for all records that contain like characters in Address, Street,
Equipment, Asset, Position, or System, enter "%." For example, if you want to search for
all assets beginning with the letter "M," enter "M%" in Asset. If you want to search for all
positions containing the letters "PMP," enter "%PMP%" in Position.
Specify one of the following options:

Option

Description

Address

The Street and Zone fields are displayed. Specify
the street address and/or zone location for which to
search.
To search for intersections, enter the street
names with the appropriate separator as defined in
installation parameter GISINTRS. For example, enter
Main & Broadway.

Equipment

The Equipment field is displayed. The equipment
lookup with GIS-integrated equipment records in
HxGN EAM that are installed, in use, and are
associated with the organizations to which you have
rights is populated. Specify the equipment for which
to search.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1737 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Asset

The Asset field is displayed. The asset lookup with
GIS-integrated asset records in HxGN EAM that are
installed, in use, and are associated with the
organizations to which you have rights is populated.
Specify the asset for which to search.

Position

The Position field is displayed. The position lookup
with GIS-integrated position records that are
associated with the organizations to which you have
rights is populated. Specify the position for which to
search.

System

The System field is displayed. The system lookup
with GIS-integrated system records that are
associated with the organizations to which you have
rights is populated. Specify the system for which to
search.

Edit the equipment’s From Point and To Point via the map if you entered a
linear equipment record in Equipment, Asset, Position, or System.
Dataspy - Select a dataspy.
Click Edit to create a Dataspy.
Buffer Layers - Select the layer in which the equipment for which you are searching
resides if you are searching for an address.
Active Layer - Specify the layer in which the search should originate if you are
searching for equipment, assets, positions, or systems.
If possible, Active Layer for the equipment, asset, position, or system record
for which you are searching is automatically defaulted. Editing the Active Layer returns
no search results.
GIS Filter - Select a GIS filter for the specified layer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1738 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Click Edit to create a GIS filter.
Radius - Specify the radius in which to search, and then select the unit of measure
(Feet, Meters, Kilometers, or Miles) in the adjacent field.
If your search is for a linear equipment record, enter a radius and unit of
measure to create a buffer around the linear equipment record on the map. All GISintegrated equipment records that fall within the from point and to point along the linear
equipment record are searched.
4. Optionally, select the Enable Advanced Search check box to select additional buffer
layers, and specify a GIS Filter and Radius for each layer, as necessary. Click Add
Line to add an additional line. You may add a maximum of ten lines.
5. Optionally, select the Search Along check box to search non-integrated features for the
selected buffer layer.
This will display for the LRS map only.
6. Click Search. The search results are displayed in the equipment grid list and on the
map. After the selecting a specific record, click Expand Left to expand the record on
the screen.
If you use geocoding services and you entered a street name and number in
Address, more than one address matching your search criteria may be returned
depending upon your Address Locator configured with the geocode service. If multiple
addresses match your search criteria, the Matching Addresses pop-up is displayed. On
the pop-up window the addresses that match the search criteria are listed and a Match
Score is displayed which is assigned for each address depending upon your Address
Locator configured with the geocode service. The closer the Match Score is to 100, the
more likely the corresponding address is the address for which you are searching.
Select the address or addresses to view on the map, and then click Submit. The map is
displayed.
If your search is for a linear equipment record, the length of the equipment record
defined between the From Point and To Point is highlighted, and the GIS-integrated
equipment records that fall within the linear equipment record’s buffer are highlighted as
well.
Double-click an equipment record to view the record details if you opened the GIS Map

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1739 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Search form via the menu bar.
7. To view work orders associated to the equipment, select equipment(s) from the grid, and
right-click to open the context menu. Select Show WOs. Work orders are shown in a
floating grid.
Optionally, expand the summary grid and use the Actions menu to select the Show
WOs option.
To hide the work order grid, click the grid, and then select Hide WOs.

GIS map toolbar in EAM
See the following descriptions when accessing buttons on the GIS Map toolbar as it displays
on screens and pop-up windows:

Button Hover Text

Toggle Overview Map

Function

Displays/removes an overview
map in the upper left-hand
corner of the main map. If the
overview map is displayed, the
system outlines the current
extent of the main map within
the overview map in red.
If you click and drag
to select an area within the
overview map, the system
highlights the area within the
overview map and updates the
extent of the main map.

Zoom to Full Extent

Displays the full extent map
defined in Esri.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1740 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Zoom In

Displays a closer, more
detailed view of the map area
selected. Records displayed in
the Equipment Within Search
Area list will continue to be
based on the search criteria.

Zoom Out

Displays a larger view of the
map area selected. Records
displayed in the Equipment
Within Search Area list will
continue to be based on the
search criteria.

Pan

Changes the focus of the map
center. Records diplayed in
the Equipment Within Search
Area list will continue to be
based on the search criteria.

Zoom to Previous Extent

Refreshes the map to focus on
the previous map. Records
displayed in the Equipment
Within Search Area list will
continue to be based on the
search criteria.

Select by

Select the method to draw
over the desired map area.
Choose one of the following
options:

• Select by Rectangle
• Select by Polygon
• Select by Freehand Polygon

• Select to form a
rectangle over the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1741 of 2039

• Select by Circle
• Select by Point

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

desired map area.
• Select at least three
points to form a polygon
over the desired map
area.
• Select to draw a line
between at least two
points on map.
• Select to form a circle
over the desired map
area.
• Select a point on the
map.

Print

Opens a new window and
displays the standard
Windows Print dialog box

Previous Search

Displays a list of the last five
searches if they occurred
within the current user session
and were initiated by clicking
Search. The first search
displayed in the list is the most
recent search performed.
Select a search, and the
system displays the selected
map and GIS Map Search
form.
The system displays
the map based on your current
settings and visible layers.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1742 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Select Features

Highlights and numbers
features on the map. The
system also highlights the
corresponding equipment
records in the equipment grid.

Sketch

Draws on the map. Click
anywhere on the map to place
a map marker or click and
drag to draw a line on the
map.

Measure

Highlights the distance
between two points on the
map and displays the distance
between the two points. The
Measure tool calculates the
current segment length. For
example, if you select feature
A and then feature B, the
system displays the distance
be- tween features A and B. If
you then select feature C, the
system displays the distance
between features B and C (the
current segment).
The distance is
measured based on the menu
item chosen.

Identify Features

Displays the attributes of map
features within a map’s visible
layers.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1743 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View Route Events

Displays the events
associated to the selected
route on the map. Choose the
event layer for which to view
events. Alternately displays
only the events currently
highlighted on the map for the
selected layer or for all events
for the selected layer.

View Nearest Address

Displays the nearest address
to a selected point on the map.

Visible Layers

Displays the Visible Map
Layers pop-up window.
Select the layers to display in
the GIS map, and click
Submit.
Temporary layers are
created and displayed in the
event you highlight or mark the
map. Clear a temporary layer
check box to remove its
markup from the map. See the
table below for more
information.

Layer name

Markup
created by

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1744 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Highlights
(temporary)

Search,
Highlight on
Map

Measurement Measure tool
s (temporary)

Nearest
Addresses
(temporary)

View Nearest
Address tool

Selections
(temporary)

Select
Features tool

Sketches
(temporary)

Sketch tool

Work Orders
(temporary)

Highlight on
Map

Visible layers are saved with
the exception of temporary
layers, according to your user
ID. When you open the GIS
Map Search form, your saved
visible layers are shown.

Show Legend

Displays a legend of icons for
each type of feature on the
GIS map

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1745 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Switch Basemap

Determines the default Esri
base map that is displayed.
Valid values are: Streets,
Imagery, Imagery with Labels,
Terrain with Labels,
Topographic, Light Gray
Canvas, Dark Gray Canvas,
Oceans, National Geographic,
and Open Streetmap.

Opacity Slider

Adjusts the transparency (or
opaqueness) of the map
service in increments of 10 or
as defined by the GIS SERV
parameter. The range of
opacity is 0-100 (percentage).
At 100, the map is most
opaque (less transparent). At
0, the map is least opaque
(more transparent).

Selecting features on the GIS map in EAM
Select integrated features on the GIS map. For every feature that you select on the map, its
corresponding equipment record is highlighted in the equipment grid and associated work
orders are highlighted in the WO grid.
Select features on the map to perform basic GIS Map Search functions on multiple equipment
records, e.g., create a route work order.
You can also select equipment records on the equipment grid. Click Select
Features, and then select the equipment records in the list. The corresponding equipment
record is automatically highlighted on the GIS map. Press SHIFT or CTRL to select multiple
equipment records at one time.
1. Perform a GIS Map Search.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1746 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Click Select Features, and then select highlighted features on the map. The highlighted
color of the features is changed and the features are numbered in the order that you
select them.

• Install parameter GISSFCLR determines the color with which the selected records
are highlighted.
• Clear features as necessary. The numbers of the remaining selected features are
updated.
• To select multiple features on the map at one time, click Select Features, and
then click and drag on the GIS map to include the desired area. All of the features
contained within the area are highlighted and randomly numbered.

Identifying features in EAM
View feature attributes within the map’s visible layers.
1. Perform a GIS map search.
2. Choose one of the following options:
• Click Identify Features, and then click on the GIS map to select a point or drag to
select an area for which to view features.
• Select the equipment or work order(s) for which to view corresponding feature
attributes in the equipment grid or WO grid. Select Identify Features in Options,
and then click Submit.
To view the selected features within a layer other than the active layer,
click the plus sign (+) next to the layer. The layer’s selected features are
displayed.
The features are highlighted in blue if the feature’s corresponding equipment or
work order record is listed in the equipment grid or WO grid. All other features are
highlighted in white.
3. Click the plus sign (+) next to the FID# for which you want to view attributes.
4. View the attributes.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1747 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Viewing the nearest address
To enable the view nearest address feature, a value must be entered for the
GISGEOSV installation parameter. Contact your system administrator for more information.
1. Select GIS Map Search.
2. Choose one of the following options:
• Click View Nearest Address, and then click on the GIS map to select a point for
which to view the nearest address.
The address of the closest feature is displayed in the address layer within
the radius, in meters, as specified by installation parameter GISNARAD. If the
closest feature is linear and your geocoding style contains a range, the street
number is approximated.
• Perform a GIS Map Search, and then select the equipment or work order record(s)
for which to view the nearest address in the equipment grid or WO grid. Select
View Nearest Address in Options, and then click Submit.
The nearest address for each record’s corresponding feature is displayed.
If the corresponding feature is a linear or polygon feature, the address is
determined based on the first point of the feature.
3. View the address information.

Creating GIS filters in EAM
A GIS Filter, similar to a Dataspy, is a named, predefined search based on GIS attributes
accessed on the GIS Map Search form. Create GIS Filters that are specific to individual
layers.
A GIS Filter allows you to apply a second level of conditional filters to your map search: filter
for equipment records using the Dataspy, and then filter for specific GIS attributes using the
GIS Filter.
To copy the values from an existing GIS Filter into a new GIS Filter, select the
existing filter in the text box, and then click Copy. Edit the GIS Filter criteria as necessary.
If you define a GIS Filter for which the system returns no data, the probable cause is that the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1748 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

column headers within Esri do not contain all uppercase letters.
1. Click Edit.
2. Click New.
3. Specify a title for the GIS Filter in the text box.
4. Edit the GIS Filter criteria as necessary. Edit GIS Filter criteria in the same manner that
you edit Dataspy criteria.

• Click Cancel New to cancel the creation of a new GIS Filter and return to the
previous view.
• Select Default Dataspy to save the selected GIS Filter as the default filter for the
active layer specified on the GIS Map Search form. You can have one default filter
for each of your active layers.
5. Click Save. The GIS Filter is applied to the GIS map search.

Creating quick work orders in EAM
Create a quick work order for any equipment displayed in the Equipment Within Search Area
list. This functionality allows you to locate a specific piece of equipment on the map and
create a work order and activity without opening the Work Orders page.
1. Perform a GIS Map Search.
2. Select the equipment record for which to create a work order.
3. In the Actions menu, select Create Quick WO, and then click Submit.
4. Specify the information necessary to create the work order.
5. Specify linear reference information.
Linear Reference Details are shown if the equipment record for which to create
the work order is a linear equipment record.
6. Specify the information necessary to add the first activity to the work order.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1749 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

7. Click Submit.
8. Click Yes to associate the map with the work order. A PDF file of the currently displayed
map is created and attached to the work order as a linked document.

Creating work orders in EAM
Create a work order for any equipment displayed in the Equipment Within Search Area list via
the Work Orders form.
1. Perform a GIS Map Search.
2. Select the equipment record for which to create a work order.
3. In the Actions menu, select Create WO, and then click Submit.
4. Specify the information necessary to create the work order.
5. Click Submit.
6. Click Yes to associate the map with the work order. A PDF file is created of the currently
displayed map, and the PDF is attached to the work order as a linked document.
7. Specify additional information on each page of the Work Orders form as necessary,
and then click Close.

Creating multiple equipment work orders in EAM
Create a work order with multiple pieces of equipment displayed in the equipment grid via the
Work Orders form.
1. Perform a GIS Map Search.
2. Select the equipment records for which to create a work order.
3. Use the Actions menu to select Create WO, and then click Submit.
4. Specify the information necessary to create the work order.

• The first piece of equipment selected displays on the Record View of the Work
Orders form; all equipment displays on the Equipment page of the Work Orders

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1750 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

form.
• Department Security is enforced on this form. User must have more than readonly access for the department.
• This functionality is not affected by ROUTEEOB installation parameter.
• Additional equipment may be added to the work order once the popup is open;
however, the attached map will not reflect the equipment change.
5. Click Submit.
6. Click Yes to associate the map with the work order. The system creates a PDF file of
the currently displayed map and attaches the PDF to the work order as a linked
document.
7. Specify additional information on each page of the Work Orders form as necessary,
and then click Close.

Scheduling work order activities in EAM
Schedule work order activities according to geographic location. To schedule a work order
activity, first create the work order activity, and then schedule it. Search for equipment for
which there are open work orders, and then schedule labor based on location for
convenience.
The Work Order Activities list displays a separate record for every work order, activity, and
schedule combination. The system displays work orders without activities in the grid, but each
work order must have an activity in order to schedule it.
1. Perform a GIS Map Search.
2. Select the work order to schedule.
3. Use the Actions menu to select Schedule WOs, and then click Submit.
4. Specify the From Point and To Point on the linear equipment record for which to
display work order activities.
The system only displays From Point and To Point if the equipment record for
which you are viewing work orders is a linear equipment record.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1751 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Select the work order activity for which to schedule. The information for the work order
activity is shown in the Labor Details section.
6. Click Add Schedule.
The system automatically populates WO-Activity-Trade with the work order, activity,
and trade for the selected work order activity. Scheduled Date is also populated with
the scheduled start date of the work order activity, Act. Est. Hours with the number of
hours planned for the work order activity, Act. Sched. Hours with the number of hours
scheduled for the work order activity, and Act. Actual Hours with the total hours
booked to date for the work order activity.
7. Specify this information:
Employee - Specify the employee who will complete the work order activity.
Scheduled Date - Specify the date for which to schedule to work order activity. You
cannot schedule work for any date earlier than today's date.
Scheduled Hours - Specify the estimated number of hours to complete the work. The
number of hours must be between 0 and 24.
Start Time and End Time - Specify the scheduled start time and end time of the work
order activity.
Shift - Specify the shift responsible for completing the work order activity.
Department - Specify the department responsible for completing the work order activity.
Maintenance Equipment - Specify equipment on which to perform maintenance during
the work order activity.
Comment - Specify comments about the work order activity.
8. Click Submit.
You may delete an existing labor schedule that is scheduled for the current
date or later if you have made an error entering the data and if you have access rights
for deleting the labor schedule. You may only delete labor schedules that have not been
frozen or completed.

Copying an existing work order activities schedule in EAM

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1752 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Copy an existing work order activities schedule to add more than one schedule to each work
order activity For example, you need to schedule an electrician from 9:00 to 10:00 and then,
after another work order activity has been completed, the electrician needs to finish the work
order activity from 1:00 to 3:00. After you copy the existing schedule, only modify the
necessary fields, such as Start Time and End Time. The original schedule is maintained, and
a new schedule is created for the work order activity.
To schedule additional time to a work order activity immediately after submitting the
original schedule, click Add Schedule. Modify fields as necessary, and then click Submit.
1. Perform a GIS Map Search.
2. Select the work order for which to copy an existing schedule.
3. In the Actions menu, select Schedule WOs, and then click Submit.
4. Select the work order activity schedule to copy, and then click Copy Schedule.
Employee and WO-Activity-Trade are populated with the employee, work order,
activity, and trade for the selected work order. Act. Est. Hours is populated with the
number of hours planned for the work order activity, Act. Sched. Hours is populated
with the number of hours scheduled for the work order activity, and Act. Actual Hours
with the total hours booked to date for the work order activity.
5. Specify this information:
Employee - Specify the employee who will complete the work order activity.
Scheduled Date - Specify the date for which to schedule the work order activity. You
cannot schedule work for any date earlier than today's date.
Scheduled Hours - Specify the estimated number of hours to complete the work. The
number of hours must be between 0 and 24.
Start Time and End Time - Specify the scheduled start time and end time of the work
order activity.
Shift - Specify the shift responsible for completing the work order.
Department - Specify the department responsible for completing the work order activity.
Maintenance Equipment - Specify equipment on which to perform maintenance during
the work order activity.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1753 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Comment - Specify comments about the work order activity.
6. Click Submit.

Creating routes and route work orders in EAM
Create routes according to the geographic location of the pieces of equipment within the
route, and then create a work order and activity for the route.
1. Perform a GIS Map Search.
2. Select the equipment records on the GIS map in the order in which they should appear
in the route.
3. In the Actions menu, select Create Route/Route WO. The selected equipment records
are displayed in the Route list. A Sequence number is assigned to each equipment
record in the order in which you selected the equipment.
Sequence numbers are assigned based on the INCRLINO install parameter
settings.
To modify the order in which an equipment record appears in the route, place your
cursor in the equipment record’s Sequence field on the Route list, and then edit the
sequence number.
To remove a piece of equipment from the route, select the piece of equipment, and then
click Remove Equipment.
4. Specify this information:
Route - Specify a unique code identifying the route, and enter a description of the route
in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization to which the route belongs if you use multiorganization security.
Click View GIS Map to view the current route map.
If you are not going to create a work order and activity for the route, select Link GIS
Map to WO on the View GIS Map pop-up to link the GIS map to all work orders for the
route. Click Submit. Click Finish on the Create Route page.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1754 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Next to create a work order and activity for the route.
If PM Revision Control is On, Next is disabled because you cannot approve a
route and, therefore, cannot create a work order for the route. Contact your system
administrator for more information. Click Finish to save the route without creating a
work order. The route is saved with a status of Unfinished.
Equipment is automatically populated with the first piece of equipment within the route
and Department, Location, Cost Code, and Assigned To are populated if available on
the equipment record.
6. Specify the information necessary to create the work order.
7. Specify linear reference information.
Linear Reference Details are only shown if the equipment record for which to
create the work order is a linear equipment record.
8. Specify the information necessary to add the first activity to the work order.
9. Click Finish. The route, work order, and work order activity records are saved and the
status of the route is set to Approved.

Locating equipment and work orders on the GIS map in EAM
You can locate one or more pieces of equipment on the GIS map.
1. Perform a GIS Map Search.
2. Select the equipment or work order(s) to locate on the map.
3. In the Actions menu, select Highlight on Map, and then click Submit. The selected
record(s) is highlighted on the GIS map.
For equipment to display in the equipment Within grid and display on the map,
the equipment must meet the search criteria, exist in both systems, and be linked
together in the database.
If you select a work order from the WO grid, the system labels the work order in addition
to highlighting it, for example WO 1001.

Viewing Analytics data in EAM

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1755 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View analytics data for any equipment in the Equipment Within Search Area list.
This feature is only available if you use HxGN EAM Analytics.
The View Analytics Data button is displayed for all users, but no data will display in the
Analytics Data pop-up if you do not have HxGN EAM Analytics.
1. Perform a GIS Map Search.
2. Select the equipment record for which to view analytics data.
3. In the Actions menu, select View Analytics Data, and then click Submit.
4. View the Analytics data for the selected equipment.

Viewing child equipment on the GIS map
View child equipment on the GIS map and in the equipment grid. The system includes all
child equipment records regardless of the search criteria entered for the parent equipment
record and regardless of whether the HxGN EAM equipment record is linked to a
corresponding GIS asset.
After viewing child equipment records, you can create HxGN EAM work orders or display
Analytics data for the child equipment records.
1. Perform a GIS Map Search.
2. Select the equipment record for which to view child equipment.
3. In the Actions menu, select Show Children, and then click Submit. The parent and
child equipment are highlighted on the GIS map, and the parent and child equipment
records are listed in the equipment grid.

• The child equipment records are shown directly below their parent equipment record in
the equipment grid.
• You cannot apply a quick filter on child equipment records.

Viewing GIS maps in EAM

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1756 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View GIS maps for equipment records, routes, and work orders within HxGN EAM.
After creating a new GIS map, view it within EAM. View multiple maps for one EAM user.
You cannot view a GIS map for any EAM equipment record that does not contain a
GIS ID number. Likewise, you cannot view a GIS map for a route or work order that does not
contain at least one equipment record with a GIS ID number.
If you are viewing a GIS map that contains a linear equipment record, see the following
information:
• If there is a discrepancy between the length of a corresponding equipment record and
feature, the equipment record is highlighted based on the length of Esri’s GIS feature.
• If the linear equipment record has multiple paths, e.g., a road that forks in multiple
directions, all paths of the equipment are highlighted based on the length defined on the
equipment or work order’s From Point and To Point.

Viewing GIS maps from equipment records
View the GIS map for a piece of equipment and configure the system to link the GIS map to
work orders as they are released.
1. Open the Assets, Positions, Systems, or Routes form.
2. Select the asset, position, system, or route for which to view a GIS map, and then click
the Record View tab.
3. Right-click, and then select View GIS Map.
The length of linear equipment records are highlighted as defined by the From
Point and To Point and the boundary points of the equipment record are labeled.
4. Specify this information:
Map - Specify the GIS map for which to view.
Link GIS Map To WO - Select to link the GIS map to work orders containing the
selected asset, position, system, or route as the work orders are released.
When the work order is released, the map is linked to the work order as a PDF, is
flagged to print whenever the work order is printed, and is shown on the Documents

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1757 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

tab of the Work Order form.
You can edit the view of the map, such as zoom in, using the map toolbar in the
pop-up window.
5. Click Submit.
The current map settings and visible layers are saved, e.g., if you edit the zoom
extent of the map and click Submit, the map is opened to that zoom extent the next
time you view the map.
Map will be saved if GISMAPS is set to Organization or Department.

Viewing GIS maps from work orders
View the GIS map for the work order and associate the map with the work order.
1. Open the Work Orders form.
2. Select the work order for which to view a GIS map, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Right-click, and then select View GIS Map.
The equipment for the work order is automatically highlighted on the map.
From Point and To Point are now shown in the View GIS Map pop-up window
if the work order is for a route or if the equipment record for the work order is not a linear
equipment record.
The portion of linear equipment records on which to work are highlighted as defined by
the From Point and To Point of the work order. Edit the work order’s From Point and
To Point via the map.
4. Select Associate GIS Map With WO to associate the current GIS map with the work
order.
A copy of the current map is saved as a PDF with the work order, and is flagged to print
whenever the work order is printed, and is shown on the Document tab of the Work
Order form.
You can edit the view of the map, e.g., zoom in, using the map toolbar.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1758 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

5. Click Submit.

Creating maps
Create GIS map records to identify the details of the map when using EAM or the HxGN EAM
Transit app.
This screen is only accessible when GISMAPS installation parameter is set to
Organization or Department.
1. Open the Maps form.
2. Click New Record.
3. Specify this information:
Map - Specify a unique code identifying the map, and then provide a description of the
map in the adjacent field.
Organization - Specify the organization of the map.
4. Optionally, select the Mobile Only check box if the map is a mobile map and is only
available on the EAM mobile applications.
5. Optionally, select the Out of Service check box if the map is not used.
6. Optionally, associate users to this map. Right-click on the screen, and select Add to
Users. In the window, select the users to associate with the map, and then click OK.
This map is added to the records of the selected users.
If the Mobile Only check box is selected for the current map, only user records
marked as mobile or mobile administrator are available for selection in the window.
7. Optionally, associate departments to this map. Right-click on the screen, and select Add
to Departments. In the window, select the departments to associate with the map, and
then click OK. This map is added to the records of the selected departments.
8. Click Submit.
To copy a GIS map record, right-click on the screen, and then select Copy
Map.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1759 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Defining parameters for GIS maps
Specify information about the map displayed inside HxGN EAM including map service,
geocoding service, and geoprocessing service. Use this page to customize how each map will
look and behave using the GIS installation parameter values.
1. Open the Maps form.
2. Select the GIS map for which to define parameters, and then click the Parameters tab.
3. Select the installation parameter, and then specify the Value.
4. Click Submit.

Associating departments with GIS maps
Grant departmental privileges for specific maps. Associations made on this pop-up window
will create map records on the Maps tab of the Departments page.
This window is accessible only when GISMAPS installation parameter is set to
Department, and DEPTSEC installation parameter is set to On.
1. Open the Maps form.
2. Select the map for which to associate departments, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Right-click, and then select Add to Departments.
4. Select the departments to associate to the map.
5. Click Submit.

Associating users with GIS maps
Grant users privileges to specific maps.
Associate maps based on the user's organization or department list.
Associations made on this pop-up window will create map records on the Maps tab of the
User Setup page.
This popup is accessible only when GISMAPS installation parameter is set to
Organization.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1760 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Open the Maps form.
2. Select the map for which to associate users, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Right-click, and then select Add to Users.
4. Select the users to associate to the map.
5. Click Submit.

Copying GIS maps
1. Open the Maps form.
2. Select the map for which to copy, and then click the Record View tab.
3. Right-click, and then select Copy Map.
4. Specify this information:
Map - Specify a unique code identifying the new map, and then provide the new map
description in the adjacent field.
Organizations - Specify the organization of the new map.
Parameters - Select to copy the GIS map parameters to the new map.
Comments - Select to copy the comments to the new map.
Documents - Select to copy the documents to the new map.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1761 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

HxGN EAM Configuration Tasks for GIS
This guide shows you how to install, integrate, and configure the Esri GIS and EAM
application's administrative and user functions to complete specific setup and maintenance
tasks.
Intended audience

This guide is for the EAM users and GIS users who are responsible for locating, tracking, and
performing maintenance on assets or equipment dispersed across a large geographic area.
Prerequisite knowledge

To fully understand the information presented in this guide, you should first know how to
configure and operate both EAM and GIS.
Organization

This table shows the sections of the guide:

Section

Description

Requirements

Installation and integration requirements.

Installation tasks

Installation checklist and steps on installing the GIS
extensions for EAM.

Overview

Overview of the integration between EAM and GIS.

Configuring GIS

Details and instructions on how to configure GIS.

Configuring EAM

Details and instructions on how to configure EAM.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1762 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

GIS Installation parameters in EAM

Provides all GIS-specific install parameters in EAM for
configuring GIS capabilities in EAM.

Requirements
Ensure that all requirements and prerequisites are met.
Required products:
• HxGN EAM
• Esri ArcGIS Server
• Esri ArcGIS Desktop or Esri ArcGIS Pro Toolbar

Installation tasks
Install both HxGN EAM and Esri ArcGIS before beginning the process of integration and
configuration.

Installation checklist
Follow this checklist to install the products:

Task

Reference

If you previously installed
HxGN EAM GIS toolkit in a
location other than
C:\HxGNEAM\GIS, for
example, you modified the
SETUP.BAT file supplied on
the HxGN EAM GIS toolkit
*.iso file, contact EAM
Support group.

For the latest support information for this product, use a web
browser to connect to the Smart Community
<https://hexagon.com/support-success/asset-lifecycleintelligence/community> .
To access the Technical User Forum, go to
https://www.linkedin.com/groups/873447/
<https://www.linkedin.com/groups/873447/> ,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1763 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Install HxGN EAM GIS
Installing or upgrading the EAM GIS extensions for ArcGIS
extensions to integrate HxGN Desktop (ArcMap)
EAM with Esri.

Install the ArcGIS Pro Add-in, Installing the ArcGIS Pro add-in
delete any add-ins, and then
im- port an ArcMap
document.

Installing or upgrading the EAM GIS extensions for
ArcGIS Desktop (ArcMap)
Install or upgrade HxGN EAM GIS extensions.
1. Choose the folder specific to your version of ArcGIS, and then execute the appropriate
GIS version file.
The naming convention of GIS toolbar executable follows this format:
GIS<ArcMap version><EAMversion>WN<Year of release><Month of
release>.
For example, GIS toolbar on ArcMap 10.7.1 with EAM 11.5 in Windows environment
released in 2019 year 11 month, would have this file name: GIS1071115WN201911.exe.
2. Click Next.
3. Select I accept the terms of the license agreement if you agree to the terms, and
then click Next.
4. Verify that the required applications are installed, and then click Next.
5. Select Install New HxGN EAM GIS Extensions to install HxGN EAM GIS extensions
for the first time or to upgrade to HxGN EAM GIS extensions from a previous version,
and then click Next.
Select Add or Remove HxGN EAM GIS Extensions if you have already
installed or upgraded to this version of HxGN EAM GIS extensions but want to add or

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1764 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

remove individual extensions from your configuration.
6. Select the extensions to install. Use the following information:
Configuration and Help are required selections.
Create Equipment - Select to install HxGN EAM equipment creation within Esri.
Create Work Order - Select to install the Create Work Order pop-up.
Events - Select to install the HxGN EAM Events pop-up.
Map Feature Attributes - Select to install the Map Feature Attribute pop-up.
Synchronize Records - Select to install the Synchronize Records pop-up.
Synchronize Attributes - Select to install the Synchronize Attributes pop-up.
Data Filter - Select to install the Data Filter pop-up.
7. Click Next.
8. Specify the directory in which to install the HxGN EAM GIS extensions, and then click
Next.
9. Review the settings information, and then click Next.
10. Click Finish.
If the HxGN EAM GIS extensions are not visible by default in ArcMap, choose
Tools > Customize > Toolbars from the menu bar, and then select HxGN EAM GIS
Extensions.

Installing the ArcGIS Pro add-in
Install the ArcGIS Pro add-in using one of these two methods.
• Installing on the client machine
• Copying the add-in file
After the toolbar add-in is installed, the HxGN EAM add-in is available for use.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1765 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Installing on the client machine
1. Copy the .esriAddInX file to any folder on the client machine.
2. Double-click the file on the client machine, and then click the Install Add-In option.
3. After the toolbar .esriAddInX file is installed, restart the ArcGIS Pro instance to view
your changes.
4. After the toolbar add-in is installed, the HxGN EAM add-in is available for use.

Copying the add-in file
1. Copy the .esriAddInX file into the existing or added Pro Add-ins folder.
By default, this file is located in the ArcGIS\AddIns\ArcGISPro folder of the
logged in user's My Documents folder.
2. After the toolbar .esriAddInX file is installed, restart the ArcGIS Pro instance to view
your changes.
3. After the toolbar add-in is installed, the HxGN EAM add-in is available for use.

Deleting the add-in
Delete local add-ins from the Add-In Manager. Deleting an add-in moves the file from its
system folder to the system recycle bin.
Shared add-ins are listed under Shared Add-ins and cannot be deleted by using the
Add-In Manager.
1. On the Add-In Manager, ensure that the Add-Ins tab is selected.
2. Under My Add-Ins, click the add-in you want to delete. Information about the add-in is
displayed.
3. In the lower right corner of the screen, click Delete this Add-In. The add-in is marked
with a message that it has been deleted. It is still visible in the Add-In Manager and is
available in the current ArcGIS Pro session.
4. Close and reopen ArcGIS Pro. The add-in is removed from the list in the Add-In
Manager and is no longer available.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1766 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Importing an ArcMap document
Import this map document if you previously used ArcMap and would like to transition your
existing Map Exchange Documents (*.mxd) to access in ArcGIS Pro.
You do not need to perform this step if you've never used the HxGN EAM GIS toolbar
(you are implementing the ArcGIS Pro add-in for the first time) and do not have existing *.mxd
files.
1. Click Start > ArcGIS Pro.
2. Select New > Map.
3. Name the new project and select the location.
The default location of the map document is C:\Users\<UserName>\Documents
\ArcGIS\Projects\*.aprx.
4. On the Insert tab, click Import Map.
5. Navigate to the folder with existing .mxd files to select the file to import.
6. Click OK.
7. Name the .aprx file with a relevant map name.
8. Click Save.

Overview
Review the information about how this integration works.

Understanding GIS integration
Both HxGN EAM and Esri GIS should reflect an accurate representation of your company
assets. Link HxGN EAM equipment records and GIS features with a GIS object identification
number (GIS ID in HxGN EAM and GISOBJID in Esri).
SDE connection to the geodatabase is supported for the HxGN EAM to Esri GIS
integration.
Define user preferences to control how Esri responds when a user creates new equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1767 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

records within HxGN EAM and how HxGN EAM responds when a user creates new features
within Esri.
Esri and HxGN EAM create and synchronize corresponding equipment/features based on
field mappings and GIS profiles. The field mappings and GIS profiles ensure the systems
populate accurate attribute data while creating features/equipment.
Field mappings, which are defined at the layer level, allow users to move or copy specific data
from one feature to its corresponding equipment record or vice versa, e.g, map the DISTRICT
attribute in Esri to the Organization field in HxGN EAM. The system populates the equipment
record’s Organization with the data contained in the DISTRICT attribute for the feature.
See Defining field mappings for attributes in Esri.
Equipment profiles, which serve as equipment templates, can be related to GIS layers. If an
attribute value will be the same for all features in a layer, then the profile can be used to
populate this equipment value, e.g., if the Organization of the GIS profile is Org 1, all
equipment/features created based on that profile belong to Org 1.

• During equipment/feature creation, if there are both field mappings and a GIS profile,
the system populates fields based on the mappings first. If you do not define a mapping
for a field, the system populates the field based on the information defined on the
related GIS profile.
• If a field mapping for an attribute exists, the system always populates the equipment
field based on the data of the attribute, even if the attribute value is empty and the GIS
profile value contains data.
• The HxGN EAM-GIS integration supports integration with the ArcGIS server.

Defining equipment for GIS features defined prior to
integration
If you are integrating GIS and HxGN EAM for the first time, move multiple GIS features to
EAM through data collection.
Every GIS feature for which you create a corresponding EAM equipment record must have a
GISOBJID number. The GISOBJID number links each GIS map feature to an equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1768 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

record in EAM.
If you need to integrate a GIS feature with EAM that does not have a GISOBJID field
for its layer, you must manually create the field. After you manually create the GISOBJID field
for each layer you need to integrate with EAM, you should also:
• Manually enter a GISOBJID number for each feature within the layer. All GISOBJID
numbers that you manually create must be less than 100,000,000 to avoid duplicate
GISOBJID numbers with the GISOBJID numbers generated by EAM.
• Add the UPDATE_COUNT column to each layer's attribute table. The UPDATE_COUNT
column is for tracking updates to the feature record for efficient attribute
synchronization.
Note that there are several requirements related to case sensitivity for these columns, which
differ depending on which GIS application and/or version of HxGN EAM GIS is being used:
• For users of ArcMap; including all versions the HxGN EAM GIS toolbar, lower-case field
names for the GISOBJID and UPDATE_COUNT fields are not supported. In addition,
any alias defined for these fields must match the field name exactly.
• For users of ArcGIS Pro; with the HxGN EAM GIS Add-In prior to the 12.0.1 version,
lower-case field names for the GISOBJID and UPDATE_COUNT fields are also not
supported. As with ArcMap, field aliases must also exactly match their respective field
names for both GISOBJID and UPDATE_COUNT fields.
• For users of ArcGIS Pro; with the HxGN EAM GIS Add-In beginning with the 12.0.1
version, the fieldname for the GISOBJID field may be defined using either entirely
uppercase or entirely lowercase characters, as either ‘GISOBJID’ or ‘gisobjid’ (i.e.,
camel case/mixed case such as ‘GiSoBjID’ or similar is not supported). In this scenario
also, only aliases of either ‘GISOBJID’ or ‘gisobjid’, and either ‘UPDATE_COUNT’ or
‘update_count’, are supported for those key fields.

Creating GISOBJID fields for layers manually in Esri
HxGN EAM automatically generates GIS ID numbers once the two systems are fully
integrated, but you must manually enter a GISOBJID number in the attribute table of every
GIS feature that you want to move to HxGN EAM prior to integrating the systems.
For every layer containing GIS features that need to be integrated with HxGN EAM manually

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1769 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

create a GISOBJID field.
The GISOBJID field is used to link each map feature to the EAM equipment.
1. Open ArcMap or ArcGIS Pro to an existing map.
2. Select the layer for which to add a GISOBJID field.
3. Right-click the layer, and then choose Open Attribute Table or Attribute Table if using
ArcGIS Pro..
4. Click Options, and then select Add Field or select the Fields view if using ArcGIS Pro.
5. Specify this information:
Name - Specify GISOBJID.
Data Type - Select Long Integer.
Enter a precision of 9.
6. Click OK.

Creating UPDATE_COUNT columns in attribute tables for layers
in Esri
Add the UPDATE_COUNT column to each layer's attribute table. The UPDATE_COUNT
column is for tracking updates to the feature record for efficient attribute synchronization.
1. Open ArcMap or ArcGIS Pro to an existing map.
2. Select the layer for which to add the UPDATE_COUNT column.
3. Right-click the layer, and then choose Open Attribute Table or Attribute Table if using
ArcGIS Pro.
4. Click Options, and then select Add Field or the Fields view if using ArcGISPro.
5. Specify this information:
Name - Specify UPDATE_COUNT.
Data Type - Select Integer or Short Integer.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1770 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify a precision of 0.
6. Click OK.

Configuring GIS
In GIS, you must complete configuration tasks that are specific to this integration with EAM.

Configuring Esri
Configure Esri to best meet the specific needs of your company.

Defining EAM user information in Esri
Define HxGN EAM user information in GIS so that you can create HxGN EAM equipment
records from within GIS.
HxGN EAM user information must be defined for each GIS client machine.
1. Open an existing map.
2. Click ArcEditor.

Option

Description

Access using ArcGIS Desktop

Click the HxGN EAM Configuration option.

Access using ArcGIS Pro

Click the Configuration option.

3. Specify this information:
User - Specify a valid HxGN EAM user name.
If you are working in a multi-tenant environment, enter username@tenantID,
e.g, if your username is SMITHB and your tenant ID isdsmp1, enter SMITHB@dsmp1.
Password - Specify the user’s HxGN EAM password.
Confirm Password - Re-enter the user’s HxGN EAM password.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1771 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Organization - Specify the organization under which the user logs in to HxGN EAM.
Style - Select the style sheet to apply to HxGN EAM pop-up windows in the Esri tool.
The selected style sheet is applied to the pop-up window immediately.
Three style sheets are provided: Default, Blue, and Gray. To create a custom
style sheet, open DEFAULT.XSS located in [Install drive]:\[Install folder]\HxGNEAM
\GIS\TOOLBAR\STYLES and make changes to the file as necessary. Do not save your
changes to the original DEFAULT.XSS file; instead, save the style sheet under a new
name to the same location. The newly created style sheet appears as an option in the
drop-down list for Style.
HxGN EAM URL - Specify the URL address for the HxGN EAM server to which Esri
server should connect, such as, http://<yourserver.yourcompany>/axis/...services
/EWSConnector.
Tenant - Specify the tenant ID if you are working in a multi-tenant environment.
4. Click Submit. The record is saved on the user’s machine in [Install drive]:\inforEAM
\GIS\CONF\EWSUSER.XML.

Defining field mappings for attributes in Esri
Define field mappings for attributes stored within GIS and HxGN EAM at the layer level. The
fields are populated based on the mappings during equipment/feature creation and
synchronization.
To define field mappings, you must have OEGGMP permissions.
During equipment/feature creation, the fields are populated based on the mapping
relationship, e.g, to create an equipment record based on an existing feature, map data from
a GIS attribute to an HxGN EAM attribute.
HxGN EAM populates the field with the data contained in GIS. You can also define field
mappings based on constant values. For example, enter a GIS value of HYDRANT and map
it to the category field in HxGN EAM. During equipment creation, the system always
populates the category field with HYDRANT.
During synchronization, the system accesses field mappings to ensure corresponding
equipment records and features reflect accurate data. If there is a discrepancy in data, the
system copies data from one system to the other.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1772 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You do not have to define field mappings for a feature’s layer, location X, or location
Y. These values are automatically populated in the EAM equivalent fields during creation and
synchronization. You may, however, define additional field mappings for these GIS attributes if
you want the values of these fields copied into other EAM fields.
You may map more than one GIS attribute to a single HxGN EAM attribute. During creation
and synchronization, the system concatenates the data into the single field based on the
Sequence and Delimiter.
Likewise, you can map an HxGN EAM attribute that contains concatenated data into more
than one GIS attribute. During creation and synchronization, the data is parsed based on the
Sequence. If the system must parse data because one field is mapped to multiple fields, it
verifies that the number of fields to which to map data matches the instances of concatenated
data in the source field. If it does not, the data is not synchronized.
If, however, the source field in the owner system contains a null value, the null value is copied
to the multiple fields in the other system, overwriting any data that those fields originally
contained.
Identify a Source system, which controls creation, and an Owner system, which controls
synchronization. The data is mapped from the Source system during equipment/feature
creation. The data is copied from the Owner system during synchronization. See the following
example.
You define the following field mapping for the Hydrant layer:

GIS Attribute

ADDRESS

HxGN EAM Attribute

Description

Source

GIS

Owner

HxGN EAM

During synchronization of the Hydrant layer, the system discovers that a feature with the
ADDRESS attribute of 156 Main Street does not have a corresponding equipment record. The
system creates an equipment record and automatically populates its description field with 156
Main Street because GIS is the Source.
Later, you update the same equipment record’s description to 256 Main Street in EAM. During
the next synchronization of the Hydrant layer, the system updates the GIS feature’s
ADDRESS attribute to 256 Main Street because HxGN EAM is the Owner of this attribute.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1773 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system only compares attribute data for EAM and GIS if the attribute has a
defined field mapping and the Action is set to Copy.
1. Open an existing map.
The map must contain an integrated layer to access the Map Feature
Attributes pop-up window.
2. Click Display Map.
3. Select the layer for which to define field mappings.
4. Click Add Mapping.
5. Specify this information:
Type - Specify the mapping type for the record as Equipment or Work Orders.
HxGN EAM Grid - If you selected Work Orders as the value for Type, specify the EAM
user defined grid to use for mapping. The fields available for mapping are based upon
the EAM grid selected here.
The user defined grid must be Active and have the GIS WO Attribute
Mapping Grid check box selected to show in this lookup.
Type and HxGN EAM Grid fields only display when an event layer is selected to define
field mappings.
Source - Select the system from which data should be mapped during
equipment/feature creation. Choose one of the following options:
• GIS - Select to map data from GIS when creating new equipment records based
on an existing GIS feature.
• HxGN EAM - Select to map data from HxGN EAM when creating new features
based on an existing HxGN EAM equipment record.
• Both - Select to apply this mapping when creating new equipment
records/features regardless of which system the object originally resides. The
system maps data from HxGN EAM when creating new features and maps from
Esri’s GIS when creating new equipment records.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1774 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

6. Select the attribute (GIS attribute or HxGN EAM attribute) from which data should be
mapped or enter the value (GIS value of HxGN EAM value) that should be mapped. The
attribute or value should coincide with the source system, e.g., if you selected GIS as
the Source system, select a GIS attribute of GIS value to map.
If you select Layer, Location X, Location Y, or Feature Length as the GIS
Attribute from which to map data, the system automatically populates Source as GIS,
Action as Copy, and Owner as GIS.
7. Select the attribute (GIS attribute or HxGN EAM attribute) to which data should be
mapped.
See the following table to understand the relationship between Mapped From and
Mapped To, e.g., if you select a GIS attribute in Step 6, you must enter an HxGN EAM
attribute in Step 7:

Mapped From

Mapped To

GIS attribute

HxGN EAM attribute

GIS value

HxGN EAM attribute

HxGN EAM attribute

GIS attribute

HxGN EAM value

GIS attribute

For linear features, map the GIS attribute feature length to the HxGN EAM
attribute equipment length, and then map the GIS attribute for the feature’s unit of
measure to the HxGN EAM attribute equipment length unit of measure to enable linear
equipment capabilities in HxGN EAM. You must create your own GIS attribute in Esri for
the feature’s unit of measure.
8. Specify this information:
Action - Choose one of the following options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1775 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Copy - Select to copy the attribute data from the Source system.
• Move - Select to move the attribute data from the Source system. After the move
is completed, the data will only exist in one system.
If you select Move, the system protects Owner. Defining an Owner
implies the data exists in both systems.
Owner - Select the system that controls synchronization when a discrepancy
exists between a corresponding feature and equipment record. Data is copied
from the Owner system to the field of the other system.
Sequence - Select the sequence number of the mapping. If you select any
number other than 1, the system enables Delimiter.
You must select a Sequence number greater than 1 in the event that you
map more than one GIS attribute to a single attribute within HxGN EAM, e.g., if
you map HYDRANT and HYDRANT_ID from GIS to Asset EAM within , the
system must know which data to list first in the EAM Asset field.
Delimiter - Specify the delimiter value to use in the event that you map more than
one GIS attribute to a single EAM attribute.
9. Click Submit.

Defining preferences for the creation of EAM equipment in Esri
Define preferences for HxGN EAM equipment records that you create from within the GIS
system. When you define preferences, specify the equipment profile that GIS should use to
create the HxGN EAM equipment record when you create features in the related GIS layer.
When creating equipment records, the system populates fields based on field
mapping. If there is no mapping available for a field, the system populates the field based on
the GIS profile.
Based on the information you enter in the HxGN EAM Preferences pop-up, GIS can
automatically create an HxGN EAM equipment record in the same layer as its corresponding
GIS feature whenever you define a new GIS feature. The system will not create an HxGN
EAM equipment record if the layer of the GIS feature is not listed in the preferences file.
If you want to save an existing preference file in a different location, relocate the file,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1776 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and then enter the new file path in Path To Preferences.
1. Open an existing map.
2. Click ArcEditor.
3. Click the Preferences tab.
The Preferences tab on the User Information screen is currently not available
in the ArcGISPro add-in.
4. Specify this information:
Path To Preferences - Specify the file path in which to store the HxGN EAM
preferences.
ArcMap saves all files as .XML files.
5. Click Add Preference.
6. Specify this information:
Profile - Specify the HxGN EAM equipment profile that ArcMap should use to create
HxGN EAM equipment records.
Layer - Select the GIS layer in which HxGN EAM equipment records should appear.
Auto-create - Select if you want GIS to automatically create corresponding HxGN EAM
equipment records for features that you create within GIS.
Default - Select if this preference record is the default preference record.
Each profile can have only one default preference record per layer. You cannot
select more than one record containing the same layer as a default record.
7. Click Submit.

Configuring EAM
In EAM, you must complete configuration tasks that are specific to this integration.

Modifying installation parameters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1777 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Modify the GIS installation parameters in HxGN EAM before using GIS.
To display GIS parameters only, select GIS in the Dataspy.
1. Select Administration > Security > Install Parameters.
2. View and set values for GIS parameters as necessary according to the following tables.

GIS installation parameters in EAM
Configuration parameters
Parameter

Description

GISAUTH

Specify the authentication method used by the
GIS portal. Enter IWA if Windows Authentication
is used, OAUTH2 if OAuth–based
authentication is used, or leave the parameter
blank if Anonymous Authentication method is
used. Default value will be blank.

GISBASEM

Determines the default Esri base map that will
be used when displaying maps. The REST
endpoint specified in parameter GISSERV will
overlay the base map.
Valid values are: Streets, Imagery, Imagery
with Labels, Terrain with Labels,
Topographic, Light Gray Canvas, Dark Gray
Canvas, Oceans, National Geographic, and
Open Streetmap.

GISBATCH

Batch limit for Add and Sync GIS Webservices.
Default is 1000.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1778 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

GISIMGFM

Image format. Acceptable values are BMP, GIF,
JPG (default), PNG, and PNG24.

GISSERV

The URL of the map service used to display
maps in HxGN EAM.

GISLRSMM

Specify if a second map can be displayed in the
LRS map pop-up on the work orders screen.
This parameter is only used when GISMAPS <>
Global. Valid values are YES or NO.

GISLRSSL

Specify the LRS map segment layer name as
seen at the REST endpoint specified in install
parameter GISSERV. If segments are not
maintained, enter Not Applicable.

GISLRSWO

Specify whether linear equipment or underlying
segments should be returned to the work order
when using the LRS map pop-up on the work
order screen. Valid values are Equipment or
Segments.

GISSBTCL

Determines if the following temporary layers
should be cleared when Select By map tool is
used: sketches and Measurements.
Highlights and Selections temporary
layers will always be cleared. ON will clear
temporary layers. OFF will not clear temporary
layers.

GISSBLR

Determines layers in which features will be
selected when the Select By map tool is used.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1779 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

ON will only select features in the buffer layers
chosen in the Search window. OFF will select
features in all visible layers.

GISSOTKN

A mechanism to generate token based on the
origin. When set to ORIGIN, the token is
generated based on the origin header from the
request. When the value is empty, the token is
generated based on the referrer header from
the request.
This parameter value is only
considered when using the token-based
authentication method (i.e., GISAUTH=<blank>.

GISSYNCA

When set to ON, ALL linked equipment records
will be synchronized during attribute
synchronization.
When set to OFF, linked equipment records
which are not in sync will be synchronized
during attribute synchronization.

URLGIS

GIS map PDF directory. Specify
http://server_name/attachments/giswo/<tenant>/. Use http://server_name
/attachments/giswo/default/ if no tenant exists.
This value is used when displaying and printing
map attachments of the work order.

Search-related parameters
Parameter

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1780 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

GISABLC

Maximum number of advanced buffer layers
allowed in an advanced search. The default is 3.

GISADDR

Address, or streets, layer name in the Image
Service setup in the GISSERV install parameter.

GISEQUIP

Default equipment layer name.

GISGEOSV

Name of the geocoding service.

GISGMAXC

Specify the maximum number of geocoding
match candidates. The default is 100.

GISGMIN

Specify the minimum geocoding score that
should display in the Matching Addresses popup. Default is 20. Separate multiple geocoding
score values with a comma. The first value
listed is the score for GISSERV and subsequent
entries are values for each GISGEOSV entry.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1781 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

GISINTRS

Specify the separator for searching for
intersection addresses. The defaults are &, |,
and @. Values should be separated with a
space.
When ArcGIS server is being used and
a geocoding process is estab- lished, this
parameter is not used as this information is
contained within the geocoding service
described by parameter GISGEOSV. If
geocoding is not being used with ArcGIS server,
this information is used when when performing
searches.

GISMAPS

Set to Global to display a single map in EAM
based on GIS installation pa- rameters. Set to
Organization to display maps based on
organization. Set to Department to display
maps based on department. Department
security must be enabled when set to
Department.

GISNARAD

Specify the radius, in meters, used for viewing
the nearest address. The default value is 1500.

GISZOFCT

factor (%) of default extent by which the map
search result will be enlarged. The default is 2.

Highlighted line parameters
Parameters

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1782 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

GISLNCOL

Specify the color of the highlighted lines in the
GIS map by entering an RGB color of 0 to
255.

GISLNWID

Specify the width of highlighted lines in the
GIS map.

Highlighted point parameters
Parameters

Description

GISPTCOL

Specify the color of the highlighted points in
the GIS map by entering an RGB color of 0 to
255.

GISPTTYP

Specify the point type. Valid values are:
CIRCLE, CROSS, SQUARE, DIAMOND, or
X. Default is CIRCLE.

GISPTWID

specify the width of the highlighted point used
in the GIS map.

Highlighted polygon parameters
Parameters

GISPLYCL

Description

Specify the fill color used for highlighted
polygons in the GIS map by entering an RGB
color of 0 to 255.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1783 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

GISPLYBC

Specify the color used for the boundary of
highlighted polygons in the GIS map by
entering an RGB color of 0 to 255.

GISPLYFT

Specify the fill type of highlighted polygons in
the GIS map by entering a value of
HORIZONTAL, BDIAGONAL, CROSS,
DIAGCROSS, FDIAGONAL or VERTICAL.

GISPLYTR

Specify the transparency level of the color fill
of highlighted polygons in the GIS map.
If you are using ArcGIS server, you
do not need to specify a value for GISPLYTR
because the ability to highlight a polygon
using a transparent image is not supported.

Markup line and point parameters
Parameters

GISMLCOL

Description

Specify the color of the GIS markup line. The
defaults are 255, 55, and 155.

GISMLWID

Specify the width of the markup line. The
default is 4.

GISMPCOL

Specify the color of the markup point. The
default is 255, 55, and 155.

GISMPTYP

Specify the type of the markup point. Valid
values are CIRCLE, CROSS, SQUARE,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1784 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

DIAMOND, or X. Default is CROSS.

GISMPWID

specify the width of the markup point. The
default is 15.

Selected feature parameters
Parameters

GISSFCLR

Description

Specify the highlight color of selected
features. The defaults are 248, 138, and 29.

Linear equipment label parameters
Parameters

GISDREL

Description

Specify how boundary labels for linear
equipment (referred to as ‘routes’ in GIS)
should be displayed. Acceptable values are L,
N, and A. The default is L.
L to display boundary labels for the longest
path (in the event of multiple route paths).
N to display no boundary labels.
A to display boundary labels for all paths (in
the event of multiple route paths).

Text marker label parameters
Parameters

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1785 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

GISTFNTC

Specify the font color of the text marker label.

GISTFNTS

Specify the font style of the text marker label
by entering BOLD, BOLDITALIC, ITALIC,
REGULAR, OUTLINE, or UNDERLINE. The
default is BOLD.

GISTFNTZ

Specify the font size of the text marker label.
The default is 10.

GISFONT

Specify the font of the text marker label. The
default is Arial.

GISTPRMD

Specify the print mode for the text marker
label by entering ALLUPPER, ALLLOWER,
NONE, or TITLECAPS. The default is
ALLUPPER.

GISTLPCL

Specify the point color of the text label.

GISTLPTP

Specify the point type of the text label by
entering CIRCLE, STAR, CROSS, SQUARE,
or TRIANGLE.

GISTLPWD

Specify the width of the point used in the text
label.

Granting interface permissions for data filter grids in EAM
Users can filter EAM data within Esri using the Data Filter pop-up. Grant interface
permissions to each of the filterable grids.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1786 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Select the user group for which to grant interface permissions, and then click the
Interface Permissions tab. See the following table of functions in order to grant user
group access to the grids accessible by the GIS data filter:
3. Change this information:

Function

Grants Access To

BEGEQ

Equipment grid

BEGEQC

Equipment and related cost details grid

BEGEQE

Equipment and related event details grid

BEGWAC

Work order and related activity details grid

BEGWEQ

Work order and related equipment details grid

4. Select a function listed in the table above.
5. Specify this information:
Query - Select to allow users to retrieve records.
6. Click Submit.

Defining preferences for the creation of GIS features in
EAM
Define preferences for GIS features that you create from within EAM. When you define
preferences, specify the equipment profile related to the layer in which you intend to create
the new GIS feature. The default Layer, Location X, and Location Y are retrieved based on
the preference.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1787 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

When creating features, attribute data is populated based on field mapping. If there is
no mapping available for an attribute, the attribute data is populated based on the GIS profile.
Also specify how EAM retrieves data for the creation of GIS features.
There are three ways to populate data for the creation of GIS features from within EAM:
1. Auto-create
2. Prompt
3. Manual

Auto-create
If you specify the preference for the creation of GIS features as Auto-Create, when users
select a GIS profilewhen defining new HxGN EAM equipment, a GIS ID is automatically
generated and the default Layer, Location X, and Location Y are populated based on the
preference.

Prompt
Un-select Auto-create to specify the user group’s preference as Prompt.
If you specify the preference for the creation of GIS features as Prompt, when users select a
GIS profile when defining new EAM equipment, the Create GIS Feature pop-up window is
opened.
The pop-up automatically displays the Layer, Location X, and Location Y based on the
preference record for the profile. Users can edit this information as necessary. After users
submit the information, a GIS ID is generated.

Manual
If you do not link a profile and layer with a preference, users can manually define GIS features
by clicking Create GIS Feature when defining new EAM equipment.
HxGN EAM displays the Create GIS Feature window where users will specify the Layer,
Location X, and Location Y for the creation of the GIS feature. After users submit the
information, a GIS ID number is generated.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1788 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > Security > User Groups.
2. Click the GIS Preferences tab.
3. Click Add Preference.
4. Specify this information:
Profile - Specify the HxGN EAM equipment profile that the system should use to create
the GIS features.
Profiles designated as GIS profiles are displayed.
Layer - Select the layer in which GIS features should appear.
Auto-create - Select if you want the system to automatically generate a GIS ID number
and populate the default Layer, Location X, and Location Y.
Deselect Auto-create to specify the user group’s preference as Prompt.
Default - Select if this preference record is the default preference record.
Each profile can have only one default preference record per layer. You cannot
select more than one record containing the same layer as a default record.
Location X - Specify the X coordinate for which GIS features should appear.
Location Y - Specify the Y coordinate for which GIS features should appear.
5. Click Submit.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1789 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Context-sensitive Help
Reports page help
Admin reports
Access violations
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Access Violations
Description

Displays a list of access violations per user during a given time period. Access violations
occur when users enter incorrect passwords on the login page.

Checklist audit
Menu Path

Administration > > Reports > Checklist Audit
Description

Displays audit log information for selected checklist records for a specified date range.

Data Lake reports
Data Lake upload progress details
Menu Path

Contact your system administrator for access.
Description

Displays the progress and details of uploads to including primary keys and unique keys
column data.

Data Lake upload progress

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1790 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Contact your system administrator for access.
Description

Displays the number of records processed and uploaded to .

Data Lake upload setup
Menu Path

Contact your system administrator for access.
Description

Displays setup data for uploads.

Equipment reports
Decay curve chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Equipment Ranking > Decay Curves > Curve Chart
Description

View the curve chart for a selected decay curve. The decay curve chart shows curve points
and the threshold score.

Healthcare reports
Labor productivity-healthcare
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Labor Productivity- Healthcare
Description

Print the labor productivity healthcare report.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1791 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work order list - detail (healthcare)
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Work Order List-Detail
Description

Displays a list of all work orders where RTYPE is JOB or PPM. This report does not display
multiple equipment child work orders.

Hospitality reports
Actual labor hours against estimated - hospitality
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Actual Labor Hours Against Estimated-Hospitality
Description

Displays a list displaying how much time was spent, per trade, on work during a specified time
period versus the original estimate.

Annual energy use - hospitality
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Annual Energy Use-Hospitality
Description

Displays the annual energy usage report for a number of years as specified in the report
parameters.

Capital performance evaluation - hospitality
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Capital Performance Evaluation-Hospitality
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1792 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays for the selected equipment the outstanding capital request values for the selected
period and for the future period and, if applicable, the GAS (Global Asset Sustainability) index
for the equipment. This report also displays the correlation between the GAS index and the
capital request.

CO2e emissions - hospitality
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Sustainability > CO2e Emissions Chart
Description

Displays equipment (in graphical form) in best and worst order based on CO2e emissions for
the selected year and compares the data with the previous two years.

Degree day analysis - hospitality
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Degree Day Analysis-Hospitality
Description

Select the Include History field when generating the report to display all historical data from
the Historical Temperatures page. This feature also compares the actual temperature data
against the historical temperature data.

Degree days vs. energy consumption - hospitality
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Degree Days vs. Energy Consumption - Hospitality
Description

Displays the relationship between the heating and cooling degree days and energy
consumption type.

Heating and cooling degree days vs. energy costs analysis hospitality

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1793 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Degree Days vs. Energy Costs-Hospitality
Description

Displays the relationship between the heating and cooling degree days and energy costs.

Incident summary chart - hospitality
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Incident Summary Chart
Description

Displays a chart with calculations of the number of incidents per property that occurred per
month for the current year by selected groupings.

Incident response time chart - hospitality
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Incident Response Time Chart
Description

Displays a bar chart and list with problem codes, average response time, minimum response
time, and maximum response time.

WO backlog report - hospitality
Menu Path

Work > Reports > WO Backlog Report-Hospitality
Description

Displays a list of backlogged work orders. Select to sort by Start Date, Equipment, or
Location.

WO cost list - hospitality

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1794 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > WO Cost List-Hospitality
Description

Displays the costs of a work order.

WO cost summary - hospitality
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost Summary-Hospitality
Description

Includes itemized and total cost information (labor, materials, services, and tool costs) by
equipment for open and closed work orders.

Materials reports
ABC analysis
Menu Path

Materials > Process > Generate ABC Analysis
Description

Displays, on a per-store basis, the parts that have been classified by the Generate ABC
Analysis procedure.
ABC inventory analysis is an inventory method that enables you to divide your stock inventory
items into three groups or classes: A, B, and C. ABC class assignments are used as selection
criteria for a number of material management functions, such as EOQ calculations, stock
replenishment, repairable spares, and physical inventory counts.
To generate ABC analysis, enter a percentage value as the cutoff point for each of the three
classes. The system then assigns parts to one of the ABC classes by comparing the part's
value to the value of other parts. Parts assigned to class A represent the largest percentage
of your total inventory value. Parts assigned to class B represent a moderate percentage of
your total inventory value. Parts assigned to class C represent a small percentage of your

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1795 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

total inventory value.

Material lists
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > Material Lists
Description

A material list is a predefined list of parts that may be referenced on an activity of a work
order, PM schedule, or standard work order to minimize data entry and ensure consistent
material planning for jobs. First, define the material list header information, and then add part
line items to the material list. Material lists must contain at least one part line item.

Purchasing reports
Service requests reports
Work reports

Page/form helps
About
View version-specific information about the system.
View system application information, such as application name, version number, schema
name, and user ID.

ABC analysis
Menu Path

Materials > Process > Generate ABC Analysis
Description

Displays, on a per-store basis, the parts that have been classified by the Generate ABC
Analysis procedure.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1796 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

ABC inventory analysis is an inventory method that enables you to divide your stock inventory
items into three groups or classes: A, B, and C. ABC class assignments are used as selection
criteria for a number of material management functions, such as EOQ calculations, stock
replenishment, repairable spares, and physical inventory counts.
To generate ABC analysis, enter a percentage value as the cutoff point for each of the three
classes. The system then assigns parts to one of the ABC classes by comparing the part's
value to the value of other parts. Parts assigned to class A represent the largest percentage
of your total inventory value. Parts assigned to class B represent a moderate percentage of
your total inventory value. Parts assigned to class C represent a small percentage of your
total inventory value.

Account detail setup
Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > Account Detail Setup
Description

Define account detail codes for your general ledger accounts. The degree of detail included in
your account detail definition is specific to the business practices of your organization. For
example, your general ledger may include the following segments: segment 1-1400-000
identifies your Organization, 1-1300-100 identifies your Accounts Receivable for Future
Payments, 1-3300-000 identifies your fixed assets, etc. Create account code segments for
each of these codes. You can also associate Flex SQL query codes with account codes. Flex
SQL codes identify SQL query statements that are used to manipulate and validate data
related to the account code segment in the database.
After defining account detail codes, the codes are associated with transactions in the system
at the entity level (such as purchase orders, invoices, etc) and are used to link system
transactions with external accounting systems.

Actual labor hours against estimated
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Actual Labor Hours Against Estimated
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1797 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays a list displaying how much time was spent, per trade, on work during a specified time
period versus the original estimate.

Ad hoc inspections
Menu Path

Inspect > Ad Hoc Inspection
Description

Enter the results of an equipment inspection without specifying an existing route. Use this
option when an unplanned inspection occurs. To enter ad hoc inspection results, you must
first add equipment for inspection.
If you take action upon equipment identified as a Safety piece of equipment, the
system displays a confirmation message asking whether you wish to continue.

Adjustment
Menu Path

Work > Customer Contracts > Adjustments
Description

An adjustment could be an extra charge for a damaged vehicle or a late return of equipment.
You may also define discounts or credits on the Adjustments form, by entering a negative
rate.
Create a work order from an adjustment.

Administration setup
Description

Define administration setup options to format the module to your specifications.

Advanced maintenance planning configuration
Menu Path

Work > Advanced Maintenance Planning > Advanced Maintenance Planning

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1798 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Configuration
Description

Plan and configure the generating of production requests from work orders. Identify specific
work order types to exclude when work orders are generated into production requests.
Identify the changes in work order status to trigger the automatic generating of production
requests from work orders.

Alert management
Menu Path

Administration > System Configuration > Alert Management
Description

Create e-mail and work order alerts to notify users when data in HxGN EAM (e.g. equipment)
does not meet a specified criteria. First, create a grid to query data in the system and then
use alert management to determine if the results need to be measured against a min/max
setting or if the results alone will trigger an email and/or work order.
An alert management record can be created to monitor readings that are being imported into
HxGN EAM for chillers. The alert record may monitor to see if the difference between supply
air temperature and the return air temperature is >22 degrees when chilled water temperature
is <46 degrees and chilled water valve is open >50%. If all this criteria is met for a chiller then
a work order would be created indicating that a belt could be slipping or the filters may be
plugged.
Use the new R5ALERTDATAOBJ table to import records into HxGN EAM. Then use Alert
Management to analyze the records and create alerts when deviations occur.
R5ALERTDATAOBJ was specifically designed for analyzing data imported from another
system related to HxGN EAM equipment records. This table can be accessed through web
services or using the HxGN EAM Import Utility. Once records are created in
R5ALERTDATAOBJ, use this table in Grid Designer when creating the alert management grid
query.
Alerts have been extended to support flex Python execution. You can leverage a grid to meet
your specific use case requirements by configuring an alert to pass specific parameters into
your flex Python script at run time based on the values in the grid.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1799 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create an active Alert Management grid on the Grid Designer form before setting up an alert
on the Alerts form. See Defining grids.

AMS-Approve customer charges
Menu Path

Work > Additional Features > Asset Management Services > AMS-Approve Customer
Charges
Description

Approve customer charges after reviewing and correcting the results of time and material
calculations.
Customer charges are calculated based on customer contracts, pricing schedules, and work
orders associated with customer contracts.
Review customer charges and make corrections as necessary, and then approve and
generate the customer charges to customer invoices.

AMS-customers
Define the customers to whom to charge the cost of maintenance work, associate properties
with customers, create a list of callers for service requests, and view work order information
associated with customers.
This documentation refers to the customers functionality in the AMS or Asset
Management Services module.

Annual energy reduction comparison
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Sustainability > Annual Energy Reduction Comparison
Description

View and print the annual energy reduction comparison report.

Annual energy use

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1800 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Sustainability > Annual Energy Use
Description

Displays the annual energy usage report.

Approval lists
Menu Path

Work > Revision Control > Approval Lists
Description

On the Approval List form, configure the system to track and control the authorization of
modifications to entities.
Create a revision control approval list to assign users to be designated for an entity revision
record, and manage the list of users for an existing revision control approval list.
Set the installation parameter PMRVCTRL to YES to activate Revision Control. Contact your
system administrator for more information.

Approve inspection results
Menu Path

Work > Process > Approve Inspection Results
Description

The Approve Inspection Results form consists of two pages: the Parameters page and the
Preview page. On the Parameters page, you can define the selection criteria for locating the
inspection points to process in the batch. The Preview page allows you to preview all of the
inspection points selected for processing based on the selection parameters, enabling you to
select or unselect inspection points to include in the batch generation process before you
actually process the inspection point batch. You can select or unselect individual inspection
points for processing, or you can select or unselect all inspection points for processing.

Archive records

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1801 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Archive Records
Description

Archive event and transaction records. On this page, you can archive work orders, purchase
orders, stock transactions, electronic records, and audit trail records.

Archived events
Menu Path

Administration > Archived Events
Description

On this page you can view the following items for archived work order events:
• activities
• booked labor
• qualifications
• scheduled labor
• transactions
• additional costs
• booked vendor hours
• comments

Aspects
Menu Path

Work > Inspections > Aspects
Description

Define codes to represent specific aspects to measure. Measure one or multiple aspects

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1802 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

against standards or gauges.
You can also create aspect prompts to add more information to your inspection results. For
example, if you have an inspection aspect such as wall thickness for a pipe, you can add
properties such as temperature and weight to further classify the inspection results. Aspect
prompts and their associated list of values appear on the Results page of the Monitored Data
form in addition to the predefined properties. The aspect/prompt relationship acts in the same
way as custom fields.

Asset failures by service life
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Failures by Service Life
Description

Print the asset failures by service life report.

Asset inventory
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Inventory
Description

Define the parameters for the asset inventory on the Parameters tab, and then perform the
asset inventory manually or using a handheld device.

Assets
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets
Description

Pieces of equipment are entities for which you store data and create work orders. Equipment
can be of many different types, but the four main types are locations, systems, positions, and
assets.
Locations - Physical locations of systems, positions, and assets. For example, a pumping

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1803 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

system is located in Room 104.
Systems - Collections of positions or assets that work together so that when one part goes
down, all parts are affected. For example, if a pump stops working, you must turn off the
entire water line to repair it.
Positions - Functions performed by a general kind of asset. For example, the pump that
moves water from one tank to another is a functional position, which can be filled by any
number of actual, physical pumps (assets). Positions are also called functional positions.
Assets - Generally, physical objects. Assets are the base unit of equipment information and
the smallest tracking unit for capital investments.
Locations, systems, positions, and assets form a hierarchy of equipment information, with
locations at the top of the hierarchy and assets at the bottom. Data is shared among the
levels of the equipment hierarchy. For example, data for a work order performed on an asset
is also stored in the position, system, and location equipment to which the asset belongs. This
data sharing allows you to track assets and their performance in detail and under differing
conditions, to evaluate the performance of entire systems, and to assess the effect that
locations and positions have on systems and assets.
Define your organization's assets as equipment. Define parent/child relationships among
equipment to link costs and meter readings. A physical meter is a tangible device, such as a
car odometer, that measures a particular usage of a piece of equipment. Physical meters
have limits on how much usage you can track before the meter resets to zero. Define physical
meters in the Meters form.
Logical meters record the accumulative usage of a piece of equipment throughout its
operational life. The meter due value of a preventive maintenance work order is always based
on a logical meter. Use logical meters to monitor asset usage. Plan preventive maintenance in
response to logical meter levels. Define logical meters on the Meters page of the Assets,
Positions, Systems, or Locations form.
Associate warranty documents with specific pieces of equipment or with other equipment.
Define warranty terms based on equipment usage or by date. When necessary, create
warranty claims, and then enter settlement details for the claim in HxGN EAM. View and
modify the list of PM schedules for equipment (assets, positions, or systems) on the PM
Schedules tab of the respective Equipment form.

Assets for PO

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1804 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Purchasing > Assets for PO
Description

Order parts tracked by assets that are not yet defined in the database. Create new asset
records and associate them with purchase order items.
The system only requires that you create assets for purchase order items if the installation
parameter ASSETASS is set to P.
Define an asset for each individual part. For example, associate three assets with the order
line if the ordered quantity is three. You cannot set the order status to Ready for printing on
the Purchase Orders screen until you associate all parts tracked by asset.

Assets healthcare
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets Healthcare
Description

The Assets Healthcare screen includes healthcare-specific fields for defining healthcare
equipment.

Associate custom fields
Menu Path

Administration > Custom Fields > Associate Custom Fields
Description

Fields associated with a class appear only when the class has been specified in the regular
class field. Fields associated with an entity (class is *) always appear on screens based on
that entity, whether or not a class has been specified. Define lookup values for custom fields
of the Code+Description type.

Audit log
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1805 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Administration > Security > Audit Setup
Description

Displays a list of audited status changes.

Audit setup
Menu Path

Administration > Security > Audit Setup
Description

The application provides a flexible way to track changes of every attribute for almost every
table. When a user enters, updates, or deletes an attribute, the application records the old
value, new value, user code, function used, and date/time stamp. To activate this auditing,
you must know the field and the technical name of the table to track. The application cannot
track tables that do not appear in lookups or have no primary key.
Set up audit triggers to monitor attribute changes to records. Create audit trail triggers to
define what changes to which attributes you should audit. Once you know the field and the
technical name of the table to track, set up audit triggers. You can also view trigger status
values and purge audit records.
You can also administer comments and custom fields audit flags. Select the entities for which
the application tracks audit flags, ensuring that the application records all changes to
comment and custom field records for the particular entity.

Auto-Generated WO session
Description

View a list of sessions created by the alert management process when the Generate WOs
check box is selected in an alert. When the check box is selected for an alert, PMs or
maintenance pattern work orders are created or generated that are accessible via the session
on the Auto-Generated WO Sessions screen.

Average monthly usage analysis
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1806 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Materials > Reports > Average Monthly Usage Analysis
Description

View the average monthly usage by store, preferred supplier, and stock class.

Batch fuel issues
Menu Path

Work > Fuel Management > Batch Fuel Issues
Description

Manually enter fuel issues and meter readings for large fleets.

Batch update equipment ranking values
Menu Path

Equipment > Process > Batch Update Equipment Ranking Values
Description

Use the Batch Update Equipment Ranking Values form to:
• update equipment ranking values in a batch
• complete surveys in a batch
• copy equipment ranking values to equipment in a batch

Batch work order generation summary
Menu Path

Work > Process > Generate/Release WOs
Description

View summary information of the work order generated from the Generate/Release WOs
form. This report can only be printed from the Generate/Release WOs form.

Batch work order updates

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1807 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Process > Batch Work Order Updates
Description

On the Batch Work Order Updates form, book labor for work orders in a batch.

Book PO labor
Menu Path

Work > Process > Book PO Labor
Description

Specify the PO line details and booking details.
Optionally, you can allow labor bookings for purchase orders when the date worked falls
outside the activity date range. You can also allow labor bookings for purchase orders to be
applied to completed multi-equipment work orders where Equipment=All Equipment.

Booked labor by activity
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Booked Labor By Activity
You may also access this report on the Booked Labor Activity Chart tab on the
Work Order screen.
Description

View the number of booked hours by activity per trade for a specified period.

Breakup kits
Menu Path

Materials > Kits > Breakup Kit
Description

Once the parts or kit is received, inspect the component parts and return the kit to stock or

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1808 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

return the parts to stock and/or repair and account for usage.

Build kits
Menu Path

Materials > Kits > Build Kit
Description

Build a kit from a stock of parts within a store using a pre-defined kit template.
The kit template is defined on the Kit Template tab of the Parts screen. In the header, specify
the kit-specific information such as the kit to be built, the location, number of kits, and
expiration date. Then click Retrieve Parts to add the relevant parts.

Bulletin board notices
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Bulletin Board Notices
Description

Create bulletin board notices to view call center-related news and updates.

Calibration analysis
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Calibrations > Calibration Analysis
Description

Displays a list of completed calibration work orders by department that have resulted in the
specified minimum number of consecutive or non-consecutive calibration statuses of pass or
fail.
The report allows you to identify patterns in the results of calibration work orders to determine
whether the frequency of calibration PMs should be adjusted, whether the equipment should
be replaced, etc.
Using Min. # of Calibrations, helps determine the actual number of completed calibration

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1809 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

work orders to retrieve for the report. If the actual number of completed calibration work
orders is less than the value specified for Min. # of Calibrations, no results are displayed.
However, if the number of completed work orders is greater than or equal to the value of Min.
# of Calibrations, all of the work orders are displayed.
Calibration work orders are considered consecutive if there are no other work orders for the
equipment containing test points that were completed between the work orders in question.

Calibration due report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Calibrations > Calibration Due Report
Description

Displays a list of all open calibration work orders containing test points for which the planned
completion date is less than or equal to the Due By date.
The planned completion date of a work order is calculated using the following formula:
Planned completion date = (Target date + Duration) - 1
If you select to include backlogged work orders, the number of days late for each work order
are displayed in the report output. The number of days late is calculated using the following
formula:
Days late = System date - Planned completion date
The System field in the report output displays all of the systems above the selected
System/Equipment in an equipment hierarchy. If the selected System/Equipment has more
than one parent in a hierarchy, each parent is displayed and each code separated with a
forward slash (/), e.g., SYS1/SYS2/SYS3.

Calibration record report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Calibrations > Calibration Record Report
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1810 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays a calibration record that includes calibration header information, such as the work
order and equipment. The body of the report is printed in a tabular format that includes the
loop instruments, test points, standards used, potential standards, work order comments and
custom fields, and any equipment custom fields for the calibration work order.
The report enables you to print a document to serve as a guide for the technician performing
the calibration and also as a document on which to record the actual results of the calibration
process. The report also provides an area on which to record performed by and approved by
signatures.
After completing the calibration, transfer the information recorded on the document during the
calibration process into the system to maintain an electronic record of the calibration, and
then store the printed document in a secure location to keep a printed record of the
equipment calibration.

Calibration reverse traceability
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Calibrations > Calibration Reverse Traceability
Description

Displays a list of calibration work orders, including all test points on the work order, for which
a selected standard has been used to calibrate a piece of equipment. The completion date of
the work orders must fall within the specified start and end date.
When the standard used for calibration is out of tolerance, it is necessary to identify the
equipment that has been calibrated with the out of tolerance standard.
Print work orders for which test point deviations are greater than or equal to the specified
deviation.
The System field in the report output displays all of the systems above the selected
System/Equipment in an equipment hierarchy. If the selected System/Equipment has more
than one parent in a hierarchy, the system displays each parent and separates each code
with a forward slash (/), e.g., SYS1/SYS2/SYS3.

Call Center
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1811 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Operations > Call Center
Description

Create customer requests and work orders, recording customer comments, and querying the
knowledge base for information to facilitate the customer's needs.

Call Center setup
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Call Center Setup
Description

Set up the call center form by selecting default values and the options to display on the form
such as default work order status, default request type, the number of days to show closed
work orders, and options for the GIS Map Search pop-up.

Call Center WO
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Orders > Call Center WO
Description

Displays a work order with fields commonly used by off-site call center contractors who do not
have access to the system.

Calendar groups
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Calendar Groups
Description

Define a calendar group code for equipment that share periods of availability.

Capital request categorization codes
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1812 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Administration > Setup > Capital Request Categorization Codes
Description

Define capital request categorization codes for use on the Capital Planning Request form.

Case management
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Case Management
Description

Case management allows you to collect and track data for events not associated with a work
order. Examples of events include accidents, spills, emission events, halts of production lines,
and shift incidents. First define the events as a case, and then define tasks to complete for
the case, and associate service codes, and task checklists.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Case, Equipment, Type, Status, Department, Class, Location,
Cost Code for which to generate the report.
Specify the Requested By, Responsible, and Assigned To persons for which to generate
the report.
Select the Include Task Plan Checklist check box to include checklist items for task plans
associated with the case.
Select the Incude Task Comments check box to include task comments associated with the
case in the report.
Select the Include Task User Defined Fields check box to include the task plan user defined
fields in the report
Select the Print Attachments check box to print all case attachments with the report.
Specify the Start Date and End Date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Basic

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1813 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Case management report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Case Management
Description

Displays the case management records for specific scheduled start dates.

Case management tasks
Description

Define tasks or activities related to a case that must be performed to complete the case.

Categories
Menu Path

Equipment > Setup > Categories
Description

Set up initial equipment information before using the equipment module. Categories provide a
way to further organize pieces of equipment. For example, if a class is defined for motors,
create a category for motor types and sizes. Associate permits with equipment categories.

Calibration results
Menu Path

Work > Calibration Results
Description

Enter calibration results for work orders to report calibration data for the actual work
performed while calibrating a piece of equipment.

Caller login
Specify this information:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1814 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Caller ID - Specify the caller ID to access HxGN EAM Requestor.

Campaigns
Menu Path

Work > Projects > Campaigns
Description

Campaigns are comprised of two types of events:
• Survey - Maintenance personnel checks equipment specified on the work order to see if
issue(s) exist.
• Job - Work order to correct issue(s) found.
If equipment passes the survey, work on the equipment is unnecessary.
If equipment fails the survey, work on the equipment is necessary. All survey results are
recorded on the Equipment page of the Campaigns form, or the Survey Equipment page of
the Work Order form.
A campaign can have multiple jobs listed to complete work on necessary equipment, however
only one survey is allowed per campaign.

Change notices
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Change Notices
Description

Vendors use change notices to notify their customers of possible defects in their equipment or
to recommend changes to previously documented maintenance plans. Change notices can
be recorded in the system once they are issued from the vendor. Identify equipment affected
by the change notices, reference change notices on work orders, and track transactions and
events associated with change notices.

Closing codes
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1815 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment > Setup > Closing Codes
Description

The system contains four types of closing codes: action codes, cause codes, failure codes,
and problem codes. Action codes describe the steps necessary to correct the problem, such
as adding lubricant to a pump. Cause codes identify what caused the component or type of
component to fail. Failure codes identify the reason the equipment failed. Finally, problem
codes identify the observed equipment failure, such as a leak from a faucet or the overheating
of a pump.

CO2 analysis
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > CO2 Analysis
Description

Displays CO2 reduction for equipment calculated for a specific date range. The reduction
calculation can be based on the equipment efficiency (design versus actual) or on a
comparison with last year's data.

CO2e emissions by greenhouse gas
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Sustainability > CO2e Emissions by Greenhouse Gas
Description

Print the CO2e emissions by greenhouse gas report.

Compatible units accounting codes
Menu Path

Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Accounting Codes
Description

Create and modify accounting codes for reporting financial transactions of compatible units.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1816 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

On this page you can perform these actions:
• Define accounting codes for compatible units library and CU estimate records
• Categorize financial transactions associated with compatible units
Report financial accounting information for compatible units.
Related topics
Defining accounting details for compatible units

Compatible units fixed asset codes
Menu Path

Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Fixed Asset Codes
Description

Create and modify fixed asset code records for compatible units.
On this page you can perform these actions:
• Define fixed asset codes for compatible unit libraries and CU estimate records
• Categorize assets as fixed for accounting purposes
Related topics

Defining fixed assets for compatible units

Compatible units library
Menu Path

Work < Projects < Compatible Units < Compatible Units Library
Description

Define compatible units library (CU library) records.
Define compatible unit "templates" to help generate estimated costs for capital construction
design projects. These projects are routine and repetitive work performed by your

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1817 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

organization, and primarily capital expenditures. A compatible unit is the "building block" of
the design estimation process and is defined by the labor, parts, tools, and external services
required to complete the construction project, as well as the standard rates for each
component of the job.
Compatible units are made up of various combinations of labor, materials, tools and external
services.
Related topics

Associating labor with compatible units libraries
Associating parts with compatible units libraries
Associating tools with compatible units libraries
Associating services with compatible units libraries
Associating child CU records with compatible units libraries
Viewing when and where a compatible units record has been used

Compatible units overhead codes
Menu Path

Work > Projects > Compatible Units > Compatible Units Overhead Codes
Description

Include overhead costs in compatible units project estimates.
On this page you can perform these actions:
• Define overhead costs for compatible units design projects
• Apply overhead costs to the total estimates for compatible units design projects
For full access to the compatible units overhead codes features, there are five new org.
options to configure.
Contact your system administrator to check your organization options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1818 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Org. option

Description

CUESOVHD

Determines if overheads will be applied during
compatible units estimation. If set to NO,
Compatible Units Overhead Codes are not
considered when estimation is performed on a
CU Estimate. If set to YES, Compatible Units
Overhead Codes are included when estimation
is performed.

CUESSPMT

Span multiplier factor: Determines the standard
overage allowance for length-based parts that
are included in a Compatible Units Library
record that has been flagged as Span Only.
When a valid value is specified, this value is
divided by 100 (%), and applied to the Quantity
of parts in the compatible units library record.

CUESREMV

Remove Labor calculation factor: When a valid
value is specified and no applicable record
exists for labor according to the Remove action
type, this value is divided by 100 (%), and
applied for the calculation of labor hours on a
compatible units library record for the Remove
action type of a Compatible Unit; based on a
value specified for the Install labor function.

CUESTRFR

Transfer labor calculation factor: When a valid
value is specified and no applicable record
exists for labor according to the Transfer action
type, this value is divided by 100 (%), and
applied for the calculation of labor hours on a
compatible units library record for the Transfer
action type of a Compatible Unit; based on a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1819 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

value specified for the Install labor function.

CUESFERC

Determines if the FERC Unit Estimate will be
generated during compatible units estimation. If
set to NO, the FERC Unit Estimate is not
generated. If set to YES, the FERC Unit
Estimate is generated when estimation is
performed.

Related topics

Defining overhead for compatible units

CU estimates
Menu Path

Work > Projects > Compatible Units > CU Estimates
Description

Estimate costs for capital construction projects.
A CU estimate provides detailed scenarios of how work might be performed to achieve a
specific outcome for a capital construction project, as well as the estimated cost for each
scenario.
Use CU estimates to perform, quote, and approve cost estimates for these capital projects.
The estimates you create and the associated costs are based upon CU design projects. Once
the estimator responsible for a new project, creates a new capital project, they can then
designate the project as a CU design project.
CU estimates include at least one work point and an associated compatible units library
record. CU estimates also detail any specific scenarios (adjustments) that should apply to
each compatible unit that is associated to the estimate.
Calculate costs (perform estimation) to designate an estimate as either quoted or approved,
and to generate work order activities for an approved estimate.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1820 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Related topics

Creating cost estimates for compatible units
Defining work points for compatible units estimates
Associating suppliers with compatible units estimates
Associating compatible units with compatible units estimates
Estimating costs of capital projects using compatible units
Performing cost estimates for compatible units
Viewing detailed costs summaries for CU estimates
Quoting estimates for compatible units
Approving cost estimates for compatible units

Contractor portal
Description

Browse and update assigned work order activities.
Contractors use this screen to browse assigned work order activities and update the activities,
work order comments, and documents as necessary.

Cost summary by project and area
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > Cost Summary By Project and Area
Description

Prints a summary of costs by project and area.

Create service request
Description

Create new or update open service requests.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1821 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create a new service request to request maintenance on a piece of equipment or a location.
Alternately, update open service requests.

Capital planning requests
Menu Path

Work > Capital Planning Request
Description

Capital planning requests are based on forecasted labor costs, forecasted material costs, and
expected cost avoidance.

Customer service portal
Description

Create service requests to request maintenance work.

AMS-Customer contracts
Description

Create fixed charge schedules for customer contracts to create a set price to be added to a
customer invoice based upon a specified due date. Specify how time, material, and labor
costs are charged to a customer for maintenance work
Customers are defined for use with service requests and asset management services. Click
Creating Customers for more information.

Chart setup
Menu Path

Administration > Start Center Setup > Chart Setup
Description

In addition to KPIs and inbox entries, the Start Center displays charts based on user-defined
SQL statements. A chart is a graphical representation of data such as work orders assigned
to specific departments.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1822 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

After defining charts, grant users access to the charts. Charts can either be user-group
specific or public. Public charts are displayed for all users. Define system privileges for users
to personalize their Start Center to display charts based on their preferences.

Classes
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Classes
Description

Define classes for most entities. Separate a single entity into groups as necessary, most often
for cost analysis. For example, you can assign classes to equipment, and then give all air
conditioning units a class of HVAC. With this information, the application can provide an
analysis that compares the cost of maintaining all HVAC units.

Classes and custom fields
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Classes
Description

Define class records for entities. Classes allow you to segment a single entity into groups for
cost analysis or other comparisons.

Closing periods
Menu Path

Administration > Security > Closing Periods
Description

The application gathers maintenance costs on an ongoing basis. When you are ready to
process those costs, define closing periods. Typically, closing periods occur at the end of
every month, although some companies process transactions on a quarterly basis. When the
specified date arrives, the application freezes all of the relevant data, and a new costing
period begins.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1823 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define closing periods just before transferring transaction data to another application for
account processing (general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, etc.).

Condition score matrix setup
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities > Condition Score Matrix Setup
Description

The condition score matrix is used to determine the condition score, condition index, and next
inspection date of a nonconformity.
Associate a Condition Score, Condition Index, and inspection interval with any combination
of Severity, Intensity, Size, and Importance for nonconformities.
A nonconformity with higher Severity, Intensity, Size, and Importance will often require reinspections more often than a nonconformity with lower values. The Condition Score Matrix
uses a nonconformity's Severity, Intensity, Size, and Importance to determine its Condition
Score.

Configuration manager
Menu Path

Administration > System Configuration > Configuration Manager
Description

Configuration Manager – Export allows users to export a large number of configuration
items to a specially formatted file. Configuration Manager – Import allows users to import
these files.

Configuration manager - export
Description

The Configuration Manager – Export screen allows users to export a large number of
configuration items to a specially formatted file.
Preview configurations for exports on the Preview tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1824 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View the status of exports on the Status tab.

Configuration manager - import
Description

Configuration Manager – Import allows users to import specially formatted files that are
created by the export process on the Configuration Manager – Export screen.
View the status of imports on the Status tab.

Contact information
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Contact Information
Description

Enter the contact information of both customers and providers for follow up and informational
purposes.

Contract classes
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > Contract Classes
Description

Displays a list of the different contract classes.

Facilities
Menu Path

Equipment > Facilities
Description

The Facilities screen was created specifically for the Hospitality Edition and is also available
in HxGN EAM Enterprise Edition. It is used to create and maintain hotel property facilities.
These include the buildings and building infrastructure. Several user equipment types that are

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1825 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

considered facilities have been created including floor, wing, building, HVAC, and elevator.

Closing code hierarchy
Menu Path

Equipment > Setup > Closing Code Hierarchy
Description

Specify the Parent Closing Code, Child Closing Code, and Equipment. Specify the
equipment to indicate that this combination is applicable only for the equipment entered in this
field.

Rooms
Menu Path

Equipment > Rooms
Description

The Rooms screen was developed for Infor EAM Hospitality Edition. The Hospitality Edition
can be run with stand-alone HxGN EAM or integrated with Infor HMS. When running in standalone mode for example, HxGN EAM is not integrated with Infor HMS), HxGN EAM users can
create and update rooms using this form. However when running in integrated environments,
rooms are created and maintained in Infor HMS and synchronized to HxGN EAM. Rooms
cannot be updated in HxGN EAM. Only Status and structure fields are editable.
If the rooms were created in HxGN EAM you may edit the rooms on this form.
However if the rooms were created in Infor HMS you cannot edit the rooms on this form. To
edit the rooms access the room records on the Rooms form in Infor HMS.

Vehicles
Menu Path

Equipment > Vehicles
Description

The Vehicles screen was created specifically for the Hospitality Edition and is also available

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1826 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

in HxGN EAM Enterprise Edition. The purpose of this screen is to create and maintain hotel
property vehicles. This could be airport shuttle vans, town cars, or any other type of vehicle
the hotel wants to track.

Customer contracts
Menu Path

Work > Contract Management > Customer Contracts
Description

The customer contract details information such as charges, clauses, comments, and invoice
details.

Reservations
Menu Path

Work > Contract Management > Reservations
Description

Define a reservation for a customer to record the rental of equipment for short periods of time,
and the charges based on usage fees for a period of time (hours, days, and weeks) and for
the usage measured in a specific unit of measures (miles, kilometers, and engine hours).
Defining reservations
Associating adjustments with reservations
Viewing charge definitions for reservations

Customer request
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Customer Request
Description

Prints a copy of a customer request report.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1827 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Contract templates
Menu Path

Work > Contract Management > Contract Templates
Description

Create a template to define an actual contract with a customer. Include high level contract
details, charge definitions, contract clauses, and comments. After creating a template, use the
template to create a contract or modify a contract.

Customer invoices
Menu Path

Work > Contract Management > Customer Invoices
Description

The Customer Invoices screen displays details of the invoices created for customer
contracts and customer rentals.
Customer invoices can only be generated by the system. You cannot manually insert or delete
invoices on this screen, but you can modify customer invoices.

Work orders hospitality
Menu Path

Work > Verticals > Hospitality > Work Orders Hospitality
Description

Create and update hospitality-based work orders.
Creating hospitality work orders

Customer survey results
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Customer Survey Results

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1828 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

This report is not included in the default menu. Contact your system administrator to
modify the location of the report.
Description

Displays a list of all approved customer surveys and their results.

Work orders healthcare
Description

Create and maintain work orders for the healthcare industry. Create new work orders for one
or more pieces of healthcare equipment.

Incident requests
Menu Path

Work > Verticals > Hospitality > Incident Requests
Description

An incident report or accident report is filled out in order document the exact details of the
occurrence while they are fresh in the minds of those who witnessed the event.
Creating incident requests

Crystal Clear report status
Menu Path

Administration > Crystal Clear Report Status
Description

View a list of the queued reports of the current day, and select them for display once
completed.
The install parameter REPPURGE determines how long report records and the associated
PDF files should exist on the server before being purged. Contact your system administrator
for more information.
Choose one of the following options:

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1829 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View the report status - See the following table for information about the report status:

Status

Description

Submitted

The report has been submitted but has not
been accepted by the report server.

In Progress

The status from creation until the report is either
successfully created (Ready) or fails to be
created (Failed).

Failed

The status if the report fails to be created. In
this scenario, Error Message will also be
populated.

Ready

The status if the report is created successfully.

Viewed

The status once the user has viewed the report.

View the report - Double-click a Ready or Viewed report from the Reports list. The system
displays the report in PDF. If the Status of the report was Ready, the system updates it to
Viewed.
You can only view reports that you created.

Cost summary by transaction data
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > Cost Summary By Transaction Date
Description

Prints a summary of costs by transaction date. The report includes summary counts, hours
and costs for all pieces of equipment which appear on PPM and JOB type work orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1830 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Cost codes
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Cost Codes
Description

Define cost codes for the organization, and then reference them along with any data involving
costs, such as work orders, purchases, material issues, etc. Charge maintenance costs to the
correct area by specifying cost codes. The cost for repairing a unit air conditioner, for
example, might come out of a particular department's budget.

Custom fields
Menu Path

Administration > Custom Fields > Custom Fields
Description

Tailor the system for the working environment by adding custom fields to forms.
Define an unlimited number of new fields, and attach a selection of these fields to any class of
an entity (such as an equipment class or a purchase order class) or to an entity (such as all
equipment or all purchase orders). Custom fields appear on the Custom Fields page.
Specify valid lookup values for a custom field using the Associate Custom Fields form.

Customer invoice detail
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Customer Invoice Details
Description

Includes details on customer invoices such as charge categories, subcategories, charge
levels, and adjustments.

AMS-Customer invoice lines overview
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1831 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Customer Invoice Lines Overview
Description

Customer invoices are generated to create and assemble accounts receivable invoices for
asset management service customers, work order charges, and fixed payments. View
detailed customer invoice line information on the AMS-Customer Invoice Lines Overview
screen.
Customer invoices are only related to asset management services and should not be
confused with the invoice voucher functionality in the Purchasing Management module. See
Recording invoice vouchers for more information.
Customer invoices are generated in several different ways:
• Calculate customer charges and create a single customer invoice using the Create
Customer Invoice right-click option on the Work Orders screen
• Generate customer invoices from the AMS-Customer Invoices screen
• Create an invoice for a work order
Upon initiation of the invoice generation process, the system locates all customer charge
records and fixed charge schedules for customer contracts. The system does not recalculate
the invoice charge records. The system adds the total price for the customer(s) based on the
specified invoice generation criteria. The system changes the Status of all work orders on the
AMS-Approve Customer Charges screen to Invoiced.
Depending on the specified generation criteria, the system generates separate invoices for
each customer, for which the invoice organization is the organization of the customer contract.
If a single customer is referenced on more than one customer contract and the
customer contracts are from different organizations, the system generates invoices for each
of the customer contract organizations.
You can also generate invoices for customers that are marked as Out of Service. See
Creating customers for more information.

AMS-Customer invoices
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1832 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Customer Invoices
Description

Customer invoices are only related to asset management services and should not be
confused with the invoice voucher functionality in the Purchasing Management module.
See Recording invoice vouchers for more information.
Customer invoices are generated in several different ways:
• Calculate customer charges and create a single customer invoice using the Create
Customer Invoice right-click option on the Work Orders screen
• Generate customer invoices from the AMS-Customer Invoices screen
• Create an invoice for a work order
Upon initiation of the invoice generation process, the system locates all customer charge
records and fixed charge schedules for customer contracts. The system does not recalculate
the invoice charge records. The system adds the total price for the customer(s) based on the
specified invoice generation criteria. The system changes the Status of all work orders on the
AMS-Approve Customer Charges screen to Invoiced.
Depending on the specified generation criteria, the system generates separate invoices for
each customer, for which the invoice organization is the organization of the customer contract.
If a single customer is referenced on more than one customer contract and the
customer contracts are from different organizations, the system generates invoices for each
of the customer contract organizations.
You can also generate invoices for customers that are marked as Out of Service.
See Creating customers for more information.

Reservation requests
Menu Path

Work > Contract Management > Reservation Requests
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1833 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create, update, and approve reservation requests.

Service request chart
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Call Center > Service Request Chart
Description

Displays a graph that calculates the number of service requests by various groupings.

Customer surveys
Description

Insert, update, or delete customer surveys used to assess customer satisfaction,
responsiveness, etc.

Customers
Menu Path

Work > Contract Management > Customers
Description

Define the customers to whom to charge the cost of maintenance work. Associate properties
with customers to easily create service requests for customers. Associate customers’
employee names with customer records to help identify callers for service requests.

Daily trade schedule
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Daily Trade Schedule
Description

Displays a daily trade schedule for a specific date or range of dates.

Databridge setup

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1834 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > Databridge Setup
Description

View, change, or update settings on both the Databridge Server and/or the Databridge
Partner Server on the System Setup screen, and then load the modified settings as
necessary.
The current Databridge server settings are automatically retrieved when you open the
System Setup screen. You can modify this information as necessary; however, you cannot
insert any new records.

Data warehouse run log
Menu Path

Administration > Data Collection > Data Warehouse Run Log
Description

The Data Warehouse Run Log page enables you to view information such as the operation
processed, the target database object, start and end time, the elapsed time of the process,
and the status of a process. View detailed error information to view error numbers, error
messages, and sequences.
Delete run log records and error messages as necessary. Hexagon recommends that you
delete old run logs and error messages periodically.
Check the data warehouse run log for any errors after running a full load. You must run a full
load without any errors prior to switching to an incremental load. If any errors occur during the
full load, you must correct the errors and run a full load until no errors occur.

Data Lake upload setup
Menu Path

Contact your system administrator for access.
Description

Displays setup data for uploads.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1835 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Data warehouse run parameters
Menu Path

Administration > Data Collection > Data Warehouse Run Parameters
Description

Set the data warehouse run parameters to initialize the data warehouse run control table and
establish the appropriate run parameter settings for executing the data warehouse ETL
process at regularly scheduled intervals. You can also modify run parameters as necessary
and execute an ETL process manually. Set parameters to initiate a full or partial (incremental)
data load and/or purge data.
When running the ETL process for the first time, you must run a full load with no errors. After
running a clean full load, you do not need to run a full load again, because the data
warehouse retains all of the data from the full load. Subsequent future loads can be run
automatically based on your data warehouse setup, such as on a nightly basis. Future loads
will be incremental and will only add to the existing data by loading the data since the last
load. Therefore, after completing a full load, the system automatically resets the Load from
Date to the current date (date of the most recent load) and the Load Type to Incremental so
that you do not have to reset those parameters for future data loads.
Although an incremental load only loads data since the most recent load, an incremental load
also verifies time stamps for records so that it will load any changes that have been made to
an existing historical record or for transaction data that may be post-dated, etc.
Although it is not necessary, you can run a full load if desired. If you select Purge Old Data,
running a full load purges all existing data in the data warehouse before loading any data;
therefore, you can run a full load to purge the existing data from the data warehouse and then
reload all of the data based on a new Load from Date, etc.
The data warehouse does not maintain historical values for parts and stores. Instead, the
data warehouse takes daily snapshots of the value of materials and inventory in each
snapshot. Therefore, purging the existing data from the data warehouse will also purge nonhistorical value information.
After running a full ETL load, you must check the data warehouse run log for any errors.
You must run a full load without any errors prior to switching to an incremental load. If any
errors occur during the full load, you must correct the errors and run a full load until no errors

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1836 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

occur.

Dataspy
Description

Define a view of a list of records on screens that contains that same list of records.
A Dataspy is a named, predefined view of a list of records or set of data that can be used on
any page, lookup, or data area that contains that same list of records.
A Dataspy consists of the following four basic components:
• Filter - Contains the conditional statements that make up a filter. For example, a
Dataspy might filter for all requisitions that have a Status "equal to" Approved, and a
Creation Date "greater than" last Friday.
• Sort - Specifies the order in which the records should be sorted. For example, a
Dataspy might sort the requisitions so that the most recently created requisitions are
displayed at the top of the list in descending order.
• Layout - Specifies the fields that are displayed in the list and the order in which those
fields should be displayed. For example, a Dataspy might specify that the Requisition
Description column is displayed to the left of the Requisition Number column and that
the Storeroom field is not displayed in the list.
• Advanced - Specifies an additional Where Clause used for filtering data. The Where
clause is appended to the Where clause generated by the Dataspy Filter.
If a custom field saved in a Dataspy is ever unassociated, then that custom field will no longer
appear in the Dataspy nor will it impact the Dataspy. If the same custom field is ever
associated again, the relationship in the Dataspy will automatically be restored.

Decay curves
Menu Path

Equipment > Equipment Ranking > Decay Curves
Description

Specify curve points for the decay curve on the Curve Points tab. These curve points

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1837 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

associate a point in the life of the equipment with a condition score that will be assigned to the
equipment when that point in life is reached.
Use the Markov Transition Matrix tab to record the probabilities to transition from one state
to another and the weight assigned to each state. After the probability matrix is complete,
click Generate Curve Points, which starts the process that creates new curve points
automatically based on Markov chains.

Properties healthcare
Menu Path

Equipment > Properties Healthcare
Description

The Properties Healthcare screen includes healthcare-specific fields for defining healthcare
properties or collections of properties or assets that work together to create a system.

Systems healthcare
Menu Path

Equipment > Systems Healthcare
Description

The Systems Healthcare screen includes healthcare-specific fields for defining healthcare
systems.

Delinquent PM summary report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Delinquent PM Summary
Description

Displays a list of employees that are assigned to past due PM work orders. Also displays the
total count of past due PM work orders and total past due work hours.

Delivery addresses

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1838 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Purchasing > Setup > Delivery Addresses
Description

Define and maintain delivery addresses for purchasing and materials.

Departments
Menu Path

Equipment > Setup > Departments
Description

A department is the center or area that is responsible for the maintenance of equipment, such
as an asset, a position, a system, or a location. The department coordinates the work,
assigns the appropriate crew, plans the work, and approves respective work orders.
When defining equipment, assign it to a department. The department can be modified if
needed on work orders. When creating work orders (for maintenance or repairs to
equipment), the system rolls up the associated costs to the department of the work order. Set
up a default store for each department as well as a default supervisor. When reserving parts
for a work order, the system stores them in the specified store.
Associate tools with departments for scheduling purposes. Once you have associated a tool
with a department, the system allows you to schedule the tool on a work order for the
department.

Documents
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Documents
Description

Create, update, associate, and upload documents.
When defining electronic document files, consult your system administrator before defining
documents to determine if directories have already been set up.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1839 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Downtime tracking report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Downtime Tracking
Description

Displays a list of all work orders and/or equipment where Downtime Costs or Hours exist on
the header.

Electronic records
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Electronic Records
Description

Displays a list of snapshots including the parent and child records.

Electronic records for lockout/tagout
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Electronic Records
Description

Displays a list of snapshots including the parent and child lockout/tagout records.

Electronic records for permit to work
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Electronic Records
Description

Displays a list of snapshots including the parent and child records for permits to work.

Electronic records for safety
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1840 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Administration > Reports > Electronic Records
Description

Displays a list of snapshots including the parent and child safety records.

Email notification setup
Menu Path

Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Notification Setup
Description

Utilize Messenger to notify users via e-mail of specific changes in database tables. After you
define installation parameters and create e-mail templates, set up e-mail notifications when
certain events occur in the system database. Create e-mail notifications for a defined table
based on the e-mail template. Define the parameters and constraints of each e-mail
notification.

E-mail templates
Menu Path

Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Templates
Description

Create and modify e-mail messages using e-mail templates.

E-mail viewer
Menu Path

Administration > E-mail Messenger > E-mail Viewer
Description

View records of all e-mails that have been initiated from database events to ensure proper
delivery and to trouble-shoot problems with Messenger. All sent messages are displayed,
including those that encountered error messages.

Employee productivity report

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1841 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > Employee Productivity
Description

Prints the employee productivity report.

Employees
Menu Path

Work > Setup > Employees
Description

Define codes to represent individual employees, and then use the employee codes to track
full-time, part-time, and seasonal personnel. Next, define wage rates for employees to
establish a specific hourly pay rate for an employee. Rates for employees can be defined
based on the employee's level of experience, training, etc. Therefore, employees belonging to
a designated trade can have different pay rates than other employees belonging to the same
trade. You can also associate employee types with employees and record labor availabilities
for individual employees or for a group of employees. The system uses labor availability
records to calculate the available hours for employees. You may associate qualifications with
employee codes to establish qualifications for personnel. Finally, you can associate properties
with employees.

Energy Star
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Energy Star > Energy Star
Description

The HxGN EAM Energy Star Setup screen is used to map the HxGN EAM property and meter
names with the property and meter names as known to Portfolio Manager
HxGN EAM is a partner of Energy Star, a joint program between the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to monitor and improve
energy efficiency efforts.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1842 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

HxGN EAM works with the customer by sending the customer's energy consumption data to
Energy Star's Portfolio Manager system (PM) via web services of the Automated
Benchmarking System (ABS). The customer receives Energy Star ratings in return from PM
thru the ABS.
HxGN EAM helps commercial businesses monitor energy efficiency ratings through four of
eight total web services through which data is exchanged with the EPA:
Get Pending Authorizations - HxGN EAM receives ID information on the customer's
facilities and meters.
Confirm Pending Authorizations - Complete mapping of the customer's Infor HxGN IDs to
facilities and meter IDs in PM.
Manage Meter Information - Send energy consumption data from HxGN EAM to PM.
Rating Exchange Service - Retrieve Energy Star Ratings for historical 12 month periods.

Energy Star message viewer
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Energy Star > Energy Star Message Viewer
Description

View and purge asynchronous messages sent to the Energy Star Portfolio Manager (PM) thru
the Automated Benchmarking System (ABS). View messages acknowledged by ABS with a
transaction ID. All asynchronous messages are initiated by an HxGN EAM “request” and
answered by a Portfolio Manager “response”. Each request causes an entry into the Energy
Star Message Viewer table. Each corresponding response from Portfolio Manager is
appended to the request.
Included in the list view are the transaction number, the time and date the request was sent,
the date and time the response was received and the elapsed time (hhh:mm) between the
two messages

Energy Star ratings chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Energy Star Ratings Chart

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1843 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

You may also access this report on the Energy Star Ratings Chart tab of the Systems
or Positions forms.
Description

View and print the energy star ratings chart report.

Enterprise organizational hierarchy
Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > Enterprise Organizational Hierarchy
Description

Configure Databridge for use with Infor ION to send and receive information to/from other
applications within your enterprise using Infor ION. Create an enterprise organizational
hierarchy that enables Databridge to correctly identify and handle the centrally defined
organization structure in place for Infor ION.
Because Databridge will be sending and receiving information to/from other applications
within your enterprise using Infor ION, you must configure Databridge for use with Infor ION
by creating an enterprise organizational hierarchy that enables Databridge to correctly identify
and handle the centrally defined organization structure in place for Infor ION. This enterprise
organizational hierarchy is defined for Databridge on the Enterprise Organizational
Hierarchy page.
Create enterprise organizational hierarchy structures to configure Databridge to handle the
centrally defined organization coding structure in place within your enterprise. Within
enterprises, there are many applications and systems that are in place, and many times each
application includes its own concept or definition of the organization unit, which is frequently
represented by a code of some type. Specifically, within your EAM system, organization
codes may be defined as ORG1-GVL, ORG2-ATL, ORG3-DET, etc.; however, within other
applications in use within your enterprise they may define organizations as follows GVL, ATL,
DET, etc. Understandably, the establishment of specific organizational conventions within an
enterprise (across business units, groups, etc.) is necessarily an internally driven matter that
is determined by organizational business practices, accounting systems, applications, etc.,
and thus there will be differences in these organizational codes defined within your enterprise.
However, because Infor ION will be sending and receiving information containing the multiple
organizational codes from the applications in place within your enterprise, ION must be able

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1844 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

to handle all of this organizational information, therefore some kind of a centrally defined
organization coding structure must be put in place that provides Infor ION and your
applications with a common organizational language to process the organizational information
transmitted between your enterprise applications. This common organizational language is
necessary for Infor ION, but once organizational information is received by an application, the
application will then determine what to do with the information based on the business logic of
the system, etc. The application may use XML or some other functionality to transform this
common organizational language into the language of the application.

Enterprise search setup
Description

Set up the enterprise search lookup capability across the system.
An enterprise search allows the capability to search across an entire system of database
table records or repositories. Define the search criteria for the enterprise search lookup
capability across the system by first creating interest centers, and then setting up repositories
after defining columns.

Equipment class definitions
Description

Define default attributes for equipment classes including the service life of the asset class.
Define default attributes for equipment classes including service life by years or usage. You
can associate additional service life usage information on the Service Life Usages tab.
You can also associate cost associated with the age and usage of the equipment class on the
Cost Types tab.
Specify the capacity for equipment in the equipment class on the Capacities tab . The data
on this tab is used to calculate the Capacity Rating.

Equipment configuration
Menu Path

Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Configurations
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1845 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create equipment configurations to use as equipment templates. After creating an equipment
configuration, use it to quickly define assets, positions, and systems that require the same
information as is contained on the equipment configuration template.

Equipment costs by ranking chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Costs by Ranking Chart
Description

Displays a chart of equipment costs by Risk Priority Number, Ranking Score, Condition
Score, or Facility Condition Index.

Equipment details report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Detail
Description

Displays the equipment details report.

Equipment evaluation
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Equipment Evaluations
Description

Create records to represent potential new equipment that will be evaluated as possible
replacements for existing equipment. Evaluate equipment to present a side-by-side
comparison of potential equipment and existing equipment. Equipment evaluations allow you
to compare the cost of retaining existing equipment versus the capital costs and resulting
savings of acquiring the potential equipment.

Equipment generation
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1846 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment > Equipment Configuration > Equipment Generation
Description

Generate equipment quickly in a central location using equipment configurations. Define
details for the equipment generation on all levels in the structure. Details relate to equipment
attributes such as department, cost code, and the person assigned to the equipment. You can
assign different attributes to the children and the parent equipment.

Equipment history drilldown
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment History Drilldown
Description

Drill down to the list of parts or labor records and reasons for repairs for each piece of
equipment on the work orders and activities.

Equipment list detail - healthcare
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment List Detail-Healthcare
Description

Print the equipment list details report for healthcare assets, medical equipment, fire and
safety equipment, and utility systems.

Equipment operational status
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Equipment Operational Status
Description

Identify the equipment that should be taken out of rotation for maintenance. This screen
shows equipment which have overdue preventive maintenance records, meaning
maintenance that should be performed has not yet been performed. You can also change the
Operational Status of that equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1847 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View and verify details of work orders attached to equipment that should be taken out of
operations for preventive maintenance on the Work Orders tab.

Equipment performance by cost chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Performance by Cost Chart
Description

Displays a graph that calculates the top 10 equipment with the greatest total work order costs
for the selected dates. The graph displays total costs for items such as Labor, Hired Labor,
Services, Direct Purchases, and Tools.

Equipment performance by downtime chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Performance by Downtime Chart
Description

Print the equipment performance by downtime chart.

Equipment planning report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Planning
Description

View and print a linear calendar listing work orders, PMs, and maintenance patterns for
specific scheduled start dates.

Equipment profile report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Equipment Profile
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1848 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View and print details for a piece of equipment, or a list of work orders, or PM schedules
associated to the equipment.

Equipment reservations detail report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Reservations Detail
Description

Displays report of details for equipment reservations.

Equipment setup
Description

Define equipment setup options to format the module to your specifications.

eRecords setup
Menu Path

Administration > Security > eRecords Setup
Description

Create electronic records, or snapshots, of events that occur in the database. A snapshot
preserves the entire record, including information related to other database tables, to provide
historical information related to the progress of your operation. For example, a snapshot of a
work order header will include all information on the header as well as the associated
activities. The system also provides the ability to print and export snapshots to external
formats such as Adobe Acrobat® Portable Document Format (.PDF).
Define entities to take a snapshot of the record when you change the status of the record
attached to the entity. For example, if your organization requires electronic records of the
specific stages of a purchase order, you can define the snapshot for the PORD entity. The
system takes the snapshot of the record.
In addition to creating electronic records of information in the database, you can set up the
system to require an electronic signature to authorize status changes to specific records. The
electronic signature is attached to an entity, and when a system user changes the status of a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1849 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

record based on specific criteria, the system prompts the user for an ID, password, and a
reason for the signature (such as review, approval, responsibility, etc.).

Event log type filter
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Event Log Type Filter
Description

Define which event log types are selectable in the Event Log Type for combinations of Source
(Call Center or WO), WO Type, and WO Class.

Export configuration
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Export Configuration
Description

Create an export file for KPIs, inbox items, custom fields, custom reports, copied screens,
task plans, job plans, alerts, user defined grids, and web service prompts using the export
configuration feature.

Extensible framework JavaScript
Description

Create custom JavaScript files. Add business-specific functionality to existing screens/tabs in
the product by creating custom JavaScript files.

Screen setup
Menu Path

Administration > Screen Configuration > Screen Setup
Description

Set up field filters for equipment and work order types. Specify which equipment and work
order (WO) types must be made available for selection for a user on related screens.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1850 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Fleet billing report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Fleets > Fleet Billing Report
Description

Displays a list fleet customers and the corresponding bills for each.

Fleet bills
Menu Path

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Bills
Description

You can also view billing details for specific fleet bills. Fleet bill charges are summarized to the
unique fleet customer cost code and vehicle level. Charges are displayed by the following
categories:
• Usage
• Mileage
• Maintenance
• Non-maintenance
• Fuel
• Insurance
• Exceptions
These are also displayed:
• a total charge for each bill line
• a subtotal, which summarizes the charges for all bill lines by category
• an adjustment line, which summarizes all adjustments entered for previous bills that are
included in the selected bill

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1851 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• grand totals of each of the charge categories
• a total bill charge
Next, create an adjustment to vehicle ticket charges that have already been billed. The
adjustments will be reflected on the subsequent fleet bill. You can make changes to billing
category amounts or cost codes. To enter specific pool or loaner adjustments for hours
charges, hours markup charges, mileage charges, and/or exceptions charges, specify the
assignment adjustment amount in the corresponding field. These assignment adjustments
amounts can be negative (a credit) or positive (a debit).
Finally create an adjustment to vehicle ticket charges that have already been billed. The
adjustments will be reflected on the subsequent fleet bill. To correct a ticket that was billed to
an incorrect cost code, enter a new Cost Code. To enter specific assignment adjustments for
period charges, period markup charges, mileage charges, mileage markup charges, fuel
markup charges, insurance charges, insurance markup charges, and/or exceptions charges,
specify the assignment adjustment amount in the corresponding field. These assignment
adjustments amounts can be negative (a credit) or positive (a debit).

Fleet billing codes
Menu Path

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Billing Codes
Description

First, create billing codes to determine the normal fees that customers are billed for vehicle
usage through the ticketing process. Together, billing codes and markup codes, when
associated with specific fleet customers, determine the total rates for specific fleet billing
categories.
Finally, set up rates for fleet billing codes. Specify particular rates for particular dates by
setting up start dates and end dates for the rates. For example, a usage rate might fluctuate
during different times of the year. Set up usage rates for usage charges, mileage rates for
mileage charges, and insurance rates for insurance charges.

Fleet cost code search and replace
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1852 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Fleet > Fleet Cost Code Search & Replace
Description

Replace cost codes on transactions before bills are generated and sent to the general ledger.
First, search cost codes for non-billable cost codes that are associated with at least one fleet
transaction (work order, inventory transaction, vehicle ticket, or ticket adjustment) that are
billed in the next scheduled billing period and are not currently locked for replacement by
another user. Next, replace existing code values with new cost code values for the
appropriate transactions.
Finally, view all errors that occurred during the cost code search and replace process.

Fleet customers
Menu Path

Work > > Fleet > Fleet Customers
Description

Set up fleet customers to use throughout the Fleet Management system. Set up billing details
to determine the costs for which the customer is billed.
You can also associate cost codes with fleet customers to correctly display transaction costs
on fleet bills.
Next, associate billing codes with fleet customers. By associating a specific billing code with a
specific billing customer, you determine the rate for a specific billing category. Together billing
codes and markup codes, when associated with specific fleet customers, determine the total
rates for fleet billing categories such as usage and mileage.
Finally, view all previously generated bills, or view a specific billing cycle by entering a Period
End Date. Fleet bill charges are summarized to the unique fleet customer cost code and
vehicle level. Charges are displayed by these categories: Usage, Mileage, Maintenance, Nonmaintenance, Fuel, Insurance, and Exceptions. The system also displays a total charge for
each bill line, a subtotal, which summarizes the charges for all bill lines by category, an
adjustment line, which summarizes all adjustments entered for previous bills that are included
in the selected bill, grand totals of each of the charge categories, and a total bill charge. You
can also select to print bills and view current charges.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1853 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Fleet vehicle tickets
Menu Path

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Vehicle Tickets
Description

First, create vehicle tickets to track the issuing and returning of fleet vehicles from the motor
pool. The motor pool is a grouping of vehicles that are either rented to employees on a short
term basis (pool/loaner vehicles) or are provided as a long-term means of transportation
(assignment vehicles).
You can also associate billing exceptions with vehicle tickets. For example, associate an
exception code that charges customers an additional fee for low amounts of fuel in returned
vehicles with the vehicle ticket.
Finally, view billing adjustments for vehicle tickets.

Fleet markup codes
Menu Path

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Markup Codes
Description

Markup codes are used to charges additional fees above and beyond the normal fees, such
as profit margin. Together, billing codes and markup codes, when associated with specific
fleet customers, determine the total rates for fleet billing categories.
Next, set up rates for fleet markup codes. Specify particular rates for particular dates by
setting up start dates and end dates for the rates. A markup can be expressed as a flat rate or
a flat percentage. For example, select to mark up the cost of fuel by 20 USD (per inventory
UOM) or by 50 percent. Refer to the these topics for more information on billing codes:

Fuel issues
Fleet configuration
Fleet vehicle tickets

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1854 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Vehicle Tickets
Description

First, create vehicle tickets to track the issuing and returning of fleet vehicles from the motor
pool. The motor pool is a grouping of vehicles that are either rented to employees on a short
term basis (pool/loaner vehicles) or are provided as a long-term means of transportation
(assignment vehicles).
You can also associate billing exceptions with vehicle tickets. For example, associate an
exception code that charges customers an additional fee for low amounts of fuel in returned
vehicles with the vehicle ticket.
Finally, view billing adjustments for vehicle tickets.

Fleet markup codes
Menu Path

Work > Additional Features > Fleet > Fleet Markup Codes
Description

Markup codes are used to charges additional fees above and beyond the normal fees, such
as profit margin. Together, billing codes and markup codes, when associated with specific
fleet customers, determine the total rates for fleet billing categories.
Next, set up rates for fleet markup codes. Specify particular rates for particular dates by
setting up start dates and end dates for the rates. A markup can be expressed as a flat rate or
a flat percentage. For example, select to mark up the cost of fuel by 20 USD (per inventory
UOM) or by 50 percent. Refer to the these topics for more information on billing codes:

Flex Python
View Flex Python events triggered in the system by alerts or Flex business rules.
Related topics

Viewing Flex Python events

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1855 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

HxGN EAM Python Framework
HxGN EAM Python Framework and Flex Python Scripting (technical brief)
HxGN EAM Python Studio (Flex Python) Technical Reference

Fuel receipts
Menu Path

Work > Fuel Management > Fuel Receipts
Description

Manage fuel by tracking fuel issues and receipts. View fuel transactions.

Fuel
Menu Path

Work > Fuel Management > Fuels
Description

Manage fuel by tracking fuel issues and receipts. Associate fuel types to depots, tanks, and
pumps. View fuel transactions.

Fuel physical inventory
Menu Path

Work > Fuel Management > Fuel Physical Inventory
Description

Record actual quantities of tanks on a fuel physical inventory record.

GAS index analysis - hospitality
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > GAS Index Analysis
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1856 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays the GAS index and the energy efficiency of equipment over a selected period of time
and reports how much money was spent on each commodity, such as electricity, gas, water,
etc., consumed by that equipment.

GDPR administration
Menu Path

Administration > Security > GDPR Administration
Description

Review and maintain records in compliance with the EU's Global Data Protection Regulation.
Records on the GDPR Administration screen are processed nightly unless removed
permanently.

GDPR compliance - caller
Menu Path

Work > Reports > GDPR Compliance - Caller
Description

Generate a GDPR Compliance report for a caller. Reports will include a list of all data records
associated with a caller. The data records will be displayed by table and will include the
primary key fields and the description field, if available,from the referenced table.

GDPR compliance - contact
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > GDPR Compliance - Contact
Description

Generate a GDPR compliance report for a contact. The report will include all details for the
contact including name, address, phone number, and e-mail address. The data records will be
displayed by table and will include the primary key fields and the description field, if available,
from the referenced table.

GDPR compliance - employee

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1857 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Administration > Reports > GDPR Compliance - Employee
Description

Generate a GDPR compliance report for an employee. Report will include a list of all data
records associated with an employee. The data records will be displayed by table and will
include the primary key fields and the description field, if available, from the referenced table.

GDPR compliance - supervisor
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > GDPR Compliance - Supervisor
Description

Generate a GDPR Compliance report for a supervisor. Reports will include a list of all data
records associated with a supervisor. The data records will be displayed by table and will
include the primary key fields and the description field, if available, from the referenced table.

GDPR compliance - user
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > GDPR Compliance - User
Description

This report includes a list of all data records associated with a user. The data records are
displayed by table and include the primary key fields and the description field, if available,
from the referenced table.

Generate enterprise search definitions
Description

Generate associated interest centers and repositories. Use this screen to generate the
associated interest centers and repositories.

Generate production requests

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1858 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Process > Generate Production Requests
Description

Generate production requests.
Create and edit production requests based on open work orders in HxGN EAM. When
production requests are approved, the system sends the request to Infor ERP so that a
corresponding production order can be created. Once EAM receives the production order the
system updates the request with the production order details.

Generate/release WOs
Description

Create or update multiple work orders using the Generate/Release WOs form.
The Generate/Release WOs form consists of two pages: the Parameters page, on which
you define the selection criteria for locating the work orders to process in the batch; and the
Preview page, on which you can preview the work orders in the batch prior to actually
processing them and select or clear the work orders to process as necessary.
You may also generate work orders for repairable spare parts to be repaired internally. If you
select to generate work orders for internal repairs, the system checks to see if there is a Qty.
for Repair for any parts in store. If a positive quantity for repair exists, the system generates
a work order of Type Repairable Spare containing the part(s) to be repaired internally. If
Auto-Assign and Active are on, the system automatically moves the part from Qty. on Hand
to Qty. at Shop when the internal repair work order is generated.

GIS maps
Description

Use GIS maps to identify the details of the map. GIS map identify the details of the map when
using EAM or the HxGN EAM Transit app.

GIS maps search (REST)
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1859 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View an associated map by specifying geographical search criteria.
HxGN EAM can be integrated with ESRI's GIS (Geographical Information System) package. If
you have purchased the GIS module, you may use all of the functions within the GIS Map
Search forms.
Geographical Information Systems are important to companies with assets spread over a
large area such as local governments/schools, oil and gas companies, utilities, etc. GIS
systems are widely used to show assets and non-assets spatially via maps. These maps
provide a better understanding of the location of the asset of interest, directions to the asset,
work history of the asset, and the surrounding area of the asset in question.
Specify geographical search criteria to view an associated map. You can select equipment
from the grid, run a filter for equipment in the grid, or use the map functions to change the
map.
After performing a search, you can select a piece of equipment in the grid and then highlight
the equipment's location on the map, show any related child equipment on the map, view
Analytics data, view GIS attributes, create and schedule work orders for that equipment.
Select multiple equipment records to create a route and route work order. You can also print
the map using the corresponding GIS map icon below the map. Associate the map to a work
order in an Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF) file so that the map can later be printed
with the work order.
The screen display and functionality endpoint depend upon your GISSERV and
GISGEOSV installation parameters. GISSERV must contain a REST URL for the map service
and GISGEOSV must be set to geocoding service REST endpoint to experience the full
features of this screen which include:
• By default, the start-up view for this screen is set to Record View and the map is loaded
on the full screen.
• The GIS Attributes pop-up window is shown as you navigate to the equipment List View
screen.
• The new map screen features a floating pop-up window which displays the GIS
Attributes, and the Action button is now located at the bottom of the pop-up window.
• The Action button is also accessible:
• as a right-click option on the equipment grid and work order grids

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1860 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• on the List View page near the Export To Excel and Save Layout icons.

Global text changes
Menu Path

Administration > Screen Configuration > Global Text Changes
Description

Access the Global Text Changes form to change boiler text (field labels) throughout the
application rather than using screen designer on each separate screen where the boiler text
appears. Making global text changes creates system-wide terminology changes. Any changes
made on the Global Text Changes form are applied to all EAM forms where the specified
text appears.

• Error messages, function titles, and code descriptions cannot be changed using the
Global Text Changes form.
• It is possible to have duplicate texts within the application. Changing one will not affect
the other.

GL accounting setup
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > GL Accounting Setup
Description

Define hierarchies for up to three entity/segment/field combinations to support population of
values for segments for GL account codes to be handled by the GL account code engine.
Populate values for a segment of a GL accounting code using pre-defined combinations of
one or more entities,fields, and corresponding user-defined fields.

GL process schedules
Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > GL Process Schedules

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1861 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Administer general ledger (GL) processes, view schedule information for running GL
processes on the Integration Server, enter or update schedule information, check schedule
information, and/or remove schedules.
If you are a hosted (partner server) customer, you must contact EAM hosting
services to schedule running a GL process to ensure that proper resources for running the GL
process are planned and allocated by hosting services. Contact EAM Support in Hexagon
Smart Community <https://smartcommunity.hexagonppm.com/s> for more information about
contacting EAM hosting services.

Greenhouse gas
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Greenhouse Gases
Description

Create greenhouse gas records to establish and monitor the relationship between
greenhouse gas emissions and its carbon dioxide equivalent. Specify a ratio by which to
calculate the carbon dioxide equivalency relationship to the greenhouse gas.
Related topics

Grid designer
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Grid Designer
Description

Create a new grid or copy an existing grid and modify the grid definition. A grid can be added
to the menu as a new screen or as a tab on another form.

Hazards
Menu Path

Work > Permit to Work > Hazards

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1862 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Hazards are workplace tasks likely to cause bodily injury.
For example, working with fire and flammable equipment, lifting heavy objects, handling sharp
objects, working near roadsides, working at heights, or working in confined spaces. Define
these tasks as hazards to notify your employees of potential dangers in the workplace as they
perform maintenance.

Held items to stock transfer
Menu Path

Materials > Held Items Management > Held Items to Stock Transfer
Description

Transfer held items to stock bins.

Held items transfer
Menu Path

Materials > Held Items Management > Held Items Transfer
Description

Transfer held items between bins in the same store or between stores.

Import configuration
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Import Configuration
Description

Import export files created with the Export Configuration functionality. Import files such as
KPIs, custom fields, documents, and inbox items to use in another HxGN EAM
implementation.

Inbox codes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1863 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Administration > Start Center Setup > Inbox Setup
Description

Assign codes for notifications to set up inbox entries to be displayed in the inbox.
Set up inbox entries by identifying the notifications that you wish to be displayed in the inbox.
Select a SQL statement for the entry to query the database for the appropriate information to
retrieve to the inbox. Select an appropriate screen to associate with the entry. For example,
select the Work Orders form for an inbox entry for work orders that currently require
approval. Specify a Dataspy to enable the system to automatically query for the records
associated with the inbox entry to the called screen. You can also designate whether the entry
is accessible to all users (public), or specify the user groups for which to enable the entry.

Databridge transactions
Description

View Databridge transactions.
A HxGN EAM Databridge transaction is a business transaction, such as returning items. Enter
search criteria to obtain a list of transactions. Once HxGN EAM Databridge displays the
transaction list, you can view transaction details, such as key fields and error messages.
Additionally, you can cancel transactions if Databridge does not process them successfully.
Query for transactions in Databridge and view detailed processing information for
transactions.

Install parameters
Menu Path

Administration > Security > Install Parameters
Description

Define new installation parameters to tailor the system to your working environment. Set up
system-wide defaults to determine settings such as whether department security is on or off
or the number of days before a password expires for users. HxGN EAM installation sets up
default values, also known as installation codes or installation parameters. You can also

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1864 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

modify existing installation parameters. Some installation parameters are fixed, indicated by
the Fixed check box. You cannot update fixed parameters. Customize unfixed installation
parameters to tailor the system to your working environment.

Install parameter setup
Description

Set up install parameters. Update installation parameters as required to perform normal
operations.
The screen is automatically loaded when at least one install parameter is set to SET
ME.

Integration configuration
Use this screen to configure connection details for integrations with EAM and other
applications.
Related topics
Configuring OAuth 2.0 connection

Isolation points
Menu Path

Work > Permit to Work > Isolation Points
Description

Define isolation points for equipment to later isolate the equipment from its energy sources
during a lockout/tagout procedure as part of a permit to work process.

Job plans
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > Job Plans
Description

Predefine labor, parts, tools, and qualifications for jobs to minimize data entry and to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1865 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

standardize work. Ajob plan can exist anywhere a task plan exists, for example a job plan can
be referenced on a task plan, PMschedule, standard work order, work order, purchase
requisitions, or purchase order.

Job setup
Menu Path

Administration > Data Collection > Job Setup
Description

Set up, view and modify jobs. Finally, disable jobs to stop their next scheduled executions or
restart previously stopped jobs.

Key list-details report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Key List-Detail
Description

Displays a list of keys.

Key management
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Key Management
Description

The Key Management screen provides the ability to manage keys for an organization
including defining and accounting of keys and key rings. In addition, you can track the issuing
and returning of keys and key rings. Create keys and rings of keys for equipment. Associate
locks with keys and rings of keys and track transactions of keys and rings of keys.
Create keys and rings of keys for equipment on the Key Management screen. Associate
keys with rings on the Ring Keys tab. Associate locks with keys and rings of keys on the
Locks tab.
View the issue or return transactions that are associated to the key or ring on the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1866 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Transactions tab.

Key management per equipment structure report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Key Management Per Equipment Structure
Description

Display the keys associated with the selected equipment structure.

Key transactions report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Key Transactions
Description

Displays a report for transactions of keys and their associated locks for a specified period of
time.

Kit templates list
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Kit Template
Description

Displays a list of parts for which Track as Kit is selected on the parts record.

Knowledge Base articles
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Knowledge Base Articles
Description

Create articles within the knowledge base to help process customer requests.

KPI codes

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1867 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Administration > Start Center Setup > KPI Setup
Description

Set up key performance indicators (KPIs) for the Start Center. For example, define a KPI to
measure the number of maintenance dollars spent for a production line during a month.
Select a SQL select statement for the KPI to calculate the current value for the KPI. Select a
screen for which to enable a hyperlink for the KPI, and then enter a Dataspy to enable the
system to automatically query for the records associated with the KPI to the called screen.
You can also designate whether the KPI is accessible to all users.
Next, define KPI structures to create parent/child relationships between KPIs. The scores for
child KPIs roll up to all of the children's parents. For example, you create a parent KPI to
measure the overall efficiency of a production department during a month. You associate the
parent KPI with child KPIs whose scores will roll up to the score for the parent KPI. One child
KPI measures the number of units that the production line produces during a month. A
second child KPI measures the maintenance costs for a production line during a month.
Finally, you can view KPI history to review the results of KPI calculations. A record in KPI
history is generated when the score for a KPI is calculated. Updating the KPI is optional.

KPI/Inbox usage report
Menu Path

Select Administration > Reports > KPI/Inbox Usage.
Description

Displays a list of KPIs and in-box codes with the associated SQL code and associated users
and groups.

Labor required per day or trade
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Labor Required Per Day or Trade
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1868 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays a list of labor required for a particular day.

Languages
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Languages
Description

Configure the system to operate in more than one language. This feature is especially useful
for multinational organizations and for companies in bilingual countries, such as Belgium
(French and Flemish) and Canada (English and French).
When the system is configured with two or more languages, these languages will be
predefined in the system. It is possible to define extra languages. Defining other languages is
useful when creating purchase orders, quotation requests, etc, for suppliers in other
languages.
To accommodate multilingual transactions, add free-format text in both your own language
and in the supplier's language. While you can inspect the text in your own language using the
corresponding features, the text in the supplier's language will be printed on the form that will
be sent to the supplier.

Linear direction setup
Menu Path

Equipment > Setup > Linear Direction Setup
Description

Define the direction in which linear references increase or decrease. For example, a linear
equipment could increase from north to south, meaning the starting point is in the north and
the ending point is in the south.
The selection for north and south does not mean the linear equipment must always travel
north to south. This selection is only used to identify the general direction.

List of all PM schedules
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1869 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Reports > Scheduling > List of All PM Schedules

• This is an older version of the List of all PM schedules report no longer accessible in the
default menu. To access this report in the default menu, you must first rename the
report, and then add it to the menu.
• To rename the report, see Creating reports.
• To add the report to the menu, see Setting up menus for user groups
Description

Displays a listing of preventive maintenance schedules.

List of budget structure codes
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Budgets > List of Budget Codes
Description

Displays the existing budget structures and a complete list of budget codes in the system. If
children exist for a budget code, the report indents and displays the child record directly
beneath the parent record.

List of budgets (lower level)
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Budgets > List of Budgets (Lower Level)
Description

Displays budget details such as amount, WO location, department , equipment, cost type,
project.

List of budgets (top level)
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1870 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Operations > Reports > Budgets > List of Budgets (Top Level)
Description

Displays an overview of the actual amounts for a budget period based on the Budget
Structure and Budget Term.

List of categories per class
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > List of Categories Per Class
Description

Displays a list of equipment categories per class.

List of classes
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > List of Classes
Description

Displays a list of classes.

List of HxGN EAM codes
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > List of HxGN EAM Codes
Description

Displays a list of entity codes.

List of debit discounts
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > List of Debit Discounts
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1871 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the Organization, Contract, Store, Supplier, and Status.

List of documents
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Documents
Description

Displays a list of documents and their information.

List of electronic records
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > List of Electronic Records
Description

Displays a list of electronic signature records.

List of equipment
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > List of Equipment
Description

Displays a list of equipment.

List of equipment details
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > List of Equipment Details
Description

Displays a list of equipment details.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1872 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• This is an older version of the List of Equipment Details report no longer accessible in
the default menu. To access this report in the default menu, you must first rename the
report, and then add it to the menu.
• To rename the report, see Creating reports.
• To add the report to the menu, see Setting up menus for user groups.

List of existing contracts
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > List of Existing Contracts
Description

Specify the Organization, Supplier, and Store for existing contracts.

List of expired kits
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > List of Expired Kits
Description

View a list of expired kits. The kit's expiration date can be specified on the Build Kit screen.

List of functions
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > List of Functions
Description

Displays a list of functions and their information.

List of inspection results
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Inspections > List of Inspection Results

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1873 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays the results of an inspection for a particular piece of equipment.

List of invoices
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > List of Invoices
Description

Displays supplier invoice information.

List of kits
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > List of Kits
Description

The Track as Kit check box on the part record must be selected.
Select Include Kit Content List to include kit details in the report. Select Include Kit Costs
to display total kit costs.

List of nonconformities
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > List of Nonconformities
Description

Displays a list of nonconformities.

List of outstanding requisition items
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > List of Outstanding Requisition Items
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1874 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Optionally, print requisition items that are on order or print requisition items that have not been
ordered.

List of permit issues
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Permits > List of Permit Issues
Description

Displays which permits were issued for what work orders.

List of PM schedules
Menu Path

Work > Reports > List of PM Schedules
Description

Displays a quick report list of PM schedules.

List of PM work orders report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > List of PM Work Orders
Description

Prints the list of maintenance work orders report.

List of points to be inspected
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Inspections > List of Points to be Inspected
Description

Displays the inspection sequences, aspects, conditions, and methods to examine during a
specific route inspection. Use this report to register the results of an inspection for later data
entry.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1875 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

List of purchases under contract
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > List of Purchases Under Contract
Description

Displays a list of open purchase order lines

List of stock
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > List of Stock
Description

Optionally select whether to print consignment or non-consignment options. You can also
specify whether to view stock that is below reorder level, at or below minimum level, or stock
that is ready for reorder.

List of tampered records
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > List of Tampered Records
Description

Displays a list of records that have been altered abnormally or tampered.

List of work orders
Menu Path

Work > Reports > List of Work Orders
This is an older version of the List of Work Orders report no longer accessible in the
default menu. To access this report in the default menu, you must first rename the report, and
then add it to the menu.
To rename the report, see Creating reports.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1876 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

To add the report to the menu, see Setting up menus for user groups.
Description

Displays a list of work orders where Status is Released.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, Equipment, Assigned To, and Priority.
Select to group the work order report by Department, Equipment, Assigned To, or Priority.
Specify the Scheduled Start Date and Scheduled End Date to retrieve the data.
Report Type

Consumer

List of WOs for project
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > List of WOs for Project
Description

Displays a list of work orders created for a project.

List of WOs bypassed due to nesting
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > List of WOs Bypassed Due to Nesting
Description

Displays a list of PM work orders that were bypassed because they were superseded by
another PM work order.

Locations
Menu Path

Equipment > Locations

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1877 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Pieces of equipment are entities for which you store data and create work orders. Equipment
can be of many different types, but the four main types are locations, systems, positions, and
assets.
Locations - Physical locations of systems, positions, and assets. For example, a pumping
system is located in Room 104.
Systems - Collections of positions or assets that work together so that when one part goes
down, all parts are affected. For example, if a pump stops working, you must turn off the
entire water line to repair it.
Positions - Functions performed by a general kind of asset. For example, the pump that
moves water from one tank to another is a functional position, which can be filled by any
number of actual, physical pumps (assets). Positions are also called functional positions.
Assets - Generally, physical objects. Assets are the base unit of equipment information and
the smallest tracking unit for capital investments.
Locations are the top level of the equipment hierarchy and, like other equipment, can have
parents and children with many sub-levels. For example, a facility can be a parent to children
such as wings, floors, and levels. Locations can also mean two different things. One location
can tell you a piece of equipment's physical location, such as the pump in Boiler Room 2.
Another location can be equipment itself, such as Boiler Room 2. Keep in mind that
equipment keeps its location until it is moved; in other words, it can only be in one place at
one time.
Locations, systems, positions, and assets form a hierarchy of equipment information, with
locations at the top of the hierarchy and assets at the bottom. Data is shared among the
levels of the equipment hierarchy. For example, data for a work order performed on an asset
is also stored in the position, system, and location equipment to which the asset belongs. This
data sharing allows you to track assets and their performance in detail and under differing
conditions, to evaluate the performance of entire systems, and to assess the effect that
locations and positions have on systems and assets.
Define your organization's locations as equipment. Define parent/child relationships among
equipment to link costs and meter readings. A physical meter is a tangible device, such as a
car odometer, that measures a particular usage of a piece of equipment. Physical meters
have limits on how much usage you can track before the meter resets to zero. Define physical

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1878 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

meters in the Meters form.
Logical meters record the accumulative usage of a piece of equipment throughout its
operational life. The meter due value of a preventive maintenance work order is always based
on a logical meter. Define logical meters on the Meters page of the Assets, Positions,
Systems, or Locations form.

Locales
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Locales
Description

Create or modify locale settings for users. The system supports the locale at the user level,
organization level, and global level (installation parameter). The system automatically
employs the locale of the user. If this locale is not valid, then the system uses the locale of the
default organization of the user. Finally, if that locale is not valid, then the system employs the
locale of the global setting.

Lockout box
Menu Path

Work > Permit to Work > Lockout Box
Description

Define lockout boxes for employees to safely store all the keys used for a lockout/tagout
procedure. Lockout/tagout procedures are observed during the maintenance required for a
permit to work.

Login
Description

Start the application and log in.
HxGN EAM is accessible on Internet Explorer®, Chrome®, and Safari® web browsers.
Configure your specific internet browser to work with EAM. Additionally, your browser must be
set up to allow cookies and enable JavaScript before accessing the HxGN EAM login page.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1879 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Specify the URL address, user ID, password to log into the system. The Start Center home
page is displayed. Users can change passwords at any time. Periodically, the system requires
that you change your password.
If you want to bookmark the login page as a shortcut link, you may provide the User
ID in the URL http://YourServer/web/base/logindisp?userid=YourUserID. If your User ID
contains a + symbol, then you must substitute "%2B" for the "+" symbol.

Log files
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > View Log Files
Description

View and save HxGN EAM log and configuration files. Saved files are copied to a specified
location on the local drive.

Lots
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Lots
Description

Manufacturers often produce items in volume batches, called lots. Lots are a numeric or
alphanumeric method of indicating that an item is a member of a group of items that are
produced at the same time. Define lots and view bin stock per lot. For each lot, the system
displays parts contained within that lot and specifies their store and bin location.

Long term WO list
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Long Term WO List
Description

Displays a list of work orders due over a longer period of time (six months, for example) in
addition to projecting PM work orders that will be coming due.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1880 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Maintenance patterns
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > Maintenance Patterns
Description

A maintenance pattern tells how the system should generate work orders for the maintenance
pattern, and whether the resulting PM work order generation is based primarily on a time
interval (weekly, monthly, annually), or on a meter interval (for example, 3000 miles) or both.

Manufacturers
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Manufacturers
Description

Manufacturer information in HxGN EAM is more than a listing of manufacturers of parts.
Complete supplier information on the Supplier screen prior to defining manufacturers and
parts information.
Associate manufacturers with parts in a concise and organized manner and attach other
relevant information relating to manufacturers and parts, such as drawing numbers,
manufacturer part numbers, and local part numbers.

Materials setup
Description

Set up materials options.
Define materials setup options to format the module to your specifications.

Mean time between failures
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Mean Time Between Failures
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1881 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays the average time between failures.

Mean time between failures per equipment
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Mean Time Between Failures Per Equipment
Description

Details why a piece of equipment needed work and the average time between failures.

Mechanic's workbench
Menu Path

Work > Mechanic's Workbench
Description

The Mechanic's Workbench screen allows mechanics to view all work order activities and jobs
that have been assigned to the mechanic for selected shift sessions for a particular day on
the Shift Scheduling form.

Menu structure and permissions
Menu Path

Administration > Overview > Menu Structure and Permissions
Description

View user group permissions such as which user groups have access to specific screens,
reports, or tabs. Verify security filters assigned to applicable user groups, or find screens
and/or report locations in menu structures.

Medical equipment work orders by criticality
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Medical Equipment Work Orders by Criticality
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1882 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Print the report detailing the work orders for medical equipment by criticality ratings. The
report displays all work orders with PPM or JOB type.

Meter based PM due report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Meter Based PM Due Report
Description

Displays a list of meter-based PMs due by a certain date.

Meter history
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Meter History
Description

Displays meter information and meter readings by piece of equipment.

Meter reading
Menu Path

Equip > Meter Reading
Description

Add new meter readings for equipment while viewing the equipment record.
Specify meter readings recorded during equipment maintenance.

Meter replacement
Menu Path

Equip > Meter Replacement
Description

Replace physical meters on equipment as necessary.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1883 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Methods
Menu Path

Work > Inspections > Methods
Description

Inspections involve procedures or methods. With this feature, define the method of inspecting
a particular aspect of a piece of equipment.

Mobile devices
Menu Path

Administration > System Configuration > Mobile Devices
Description

Device licensing will now be based on the device licensing model. Both "named" and
"concurrent" licensing will no longer be used. A record identifying each device must exist in
the Mobile Devices table or a connection will not be allowed.
Create mobile devices within HxGN EAM using the Mobile Devices form. Specify a number
of devices up to the amount of licenses purchased.

Mobile equipment
Description

Create a Dataspy to select a group of equipment to download to your mobile device.
Create a Dataspy to view a select group of equipment. When you set up your synchronization
on your mobile device, select the Dataspy filter you would like to apply. The records which
meet the criteria of the Dataspy will be downloaded.
Setting default values for user groups in mobile applications

Mobile entities setup
Description

Add entities for downloading on a mobile device.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1884 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Configure which entities are downloaded to mobile to support entity-based lookups for userdefined fields and custom fields.

Mobile permit to work
Menu Path

Work > Mobile Permit to Work
Description

View details of existing permits to work on HxGN EAM mobile applications like the EAM
Transit app.
Create a Dataspy to select a group of permits to work. When you set up your synchronization
on your mobile device, select the Dataspy filter you would like to apply. The records which
meet the criteria of the Dataspy will be downloaded.
Update the status of a permit to work or add lockout tagout details. Contractors may sign off
as needed.
This screen does not support insert or delete, and offers a limited set of fields that
can be updated. The following list of fields can be updated:
• Status
• Lockout Box
• Note
• Location Note
• Assigned To
• Suspension Reason
• UDFs
• Custom Fields

Mobile work orders
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1885 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create a Dataspy to select a group of work orders. When you set up your synchronization on
your mobile device, select the Dataspy filter you would like to apply. The records which meet
the criteria of the Dataspy will be downloaded.

Monitored data
Menu Path

Work > Inspections > Monitored Data
Description

Enter information to establish the performance of materials in service by collecting monitored
data using techniques such as probes, coupons, etc. You can also maintain data for internal
and external corrosion prevention with coatings, cathodic protection, and inhibition. The
system processes collected information for trend analysis, prediction of remaining life, and
scheduling of the next inspection date.

Monthly usage trends
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Monthly usage trends
Description

Print a report showing monthly usage trends. Specify the Organization, Store, Part, and Part
Description.

Monthly part usage chart report
Menu Path

Materials > Parts > Monthly Part Usage Chart
You must first select the record, and then click the Monthly Part Usage Chart tab.
Description

The monthly part usage chart shows the part usage for the current month and the previous
five months. Specify the Store and then view the line chart for part usage.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1886 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Monthly scheduling details
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Monthly Scheduling Details
Description

Displays a row calendar showing monthly scheduling details such as scheduled employee
labor, planned parts, scheduled tools, and daily employee exceptions.

Data conversion
Description

Convert data uploaded from MP2.
Import MP2 data into HxGN EAM, and then select how to convert the uploaded data.

Selecting options for data conversions
Convert MP2 data while uploading the data into EAM.
Hexagon strongly recommends a system administrator or highly-skilled employee with a
significant understanding of the data being converted execute the data conversion process.
Hexagon recommends the following criteria is met prior to running the conversion process to
ensure a successful conversion:

Criteria

Set up organizations

Description

Set up organizations in HxGN EAM prior to conversion,
which will allow the user to decide which data users
should be able to share across multiple organizations,
e.g, common codes, or if data should only be available
to specific organizations.
Setting up organizations in HxGN EAM prior to
conversion will also allow the data to be split into
separate and distinct groups geared towards different

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1887 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

geographical locations or sites that do not share
transactional data.
Within organizations, set up to differentiate between
departments or work groups; those groups can share
certain data elements that help standardize how data
displays, but cannot share transactional data.

Set up one user with organization
rights

Set up one user in the system as an R5 (system
administrator) with organizational rights which will allow
the user to view the data after conversion.

Set up work order priorities
(optional)

Work order priorities in HxGN EAM are displayed
differently than in MP2. Examine work order priority
functionality in HxGN EAM prior to setting up or
converting data.
Set up work order priorities in HxGN EAM, or choose
from the default work order priorities during the
conversion process. You may opt to skip the conversion
of the work order priorities. Conversion of work order
priorities will only impact the work order priority field on
tasks. Historical or open transactional data will not be
affected by the conversion of work order priorities.

Set up equipment criticalities
(optional)

Set up equipment criticalities in HxGN EAM. Equipment
criticalities are known as equipment priorities in MP2. If
you decide not to set up equipment criticalities in HxGN
EAM prior to conversion, you may set up these
equipment criticalities at a later date, choose from the
default equipment criticalities during conversion, or
select to skip converting equipment criticalities.

Set up work order types(optional)

Set up work order types prior to the conversion process
to determine whether to use the same work order types

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1888 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

as used in MP2 or to customize new work order types
for HxGN EAM. If you choose not to set up work order
types prior to conversion, you may use the default
values during the conversion process,set up the work
order types at a later date, or skip converting work
order types.

Set up user groups (optional)

Set up user groups within HxGN EAM. The conversion
process will then map the basic security levels for users
in MP2 to users in HxGN EAM.
The user group mapping does not set up group
security. However, if user groups are not initially set up,
all users will be set up as R5 with system administrator
rights. This may be changed after conversion.

MP2 conversion options - step 1 of 13
Convert the MP2 source site.
Select a destination organization for each Source Site. Destination organization represents all
of the organizations set up by the user in HxGN EAM. It is important to note that this list will
not display common organizations.
Source Site represents the MP2 sites in the current upload.

• Selecting the same organization for all MP2 sites allows the option, in Step 2, to put
data in that organization, or you may select to put the data in a common organization
that may be shared by multiple organizations as more organizations are created in the
system. This feature also allows the sites to operate in one geographical location within
HxGN EAM.
• Selecting different organizations in this step for the MP2 sites only allows certain data to
be converted into a common organization because that data has to be shared, such as,
Cost Centers and Crafts, and would have to remain shared in HxGN EAM.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1889 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

MP2 conversion options - step 2 of 13
Convert the MP2 sites.
All of the source areas shown in this step are always shared by multiple sites in MP2. For
example, you could not have a cost center associated to a particular site in MP2. All sites
would see the cost center, using the basic MP2 security. In HxGN EAM, these areas can be
shared with all organizations (as in MP2), or users can have different lists of source areas per
organization.
If in Step 1 only one destination organization was selected for all of the MP2 sites displayed,
users will have the following two options for each area:
• The organization you chose in Step 1, so that only the one organization will see the list
in case a second organization comes into the system at a later time.
• A common organization. It is similar to the MP2 concept where these areas can be
shared by multiple organizations so that users can standardize on their nomenclature
for these areas and have a master list from which everyone chooses.
If in Step 1 there are multiple destination organizations chosen, then all of the areas will only
have a common organization to choose from for the destination organization.

MP2 conversion options - step 3 of 13
Convert MP2 user-defined fields.
Select to convert up to all 30 MP2 user-defined fields into Infor EAM. The system will create
the field in HxGN EAM and convert the respective data from MP2. Rename the user-defined
fields once they are converted because the conversion process will not convert any field
name changes.

MP2 conversion options - step 4 of 13
Convert the MP2 warehouse.
Select the destination organization in HxGN EAM for which the MP2 warehouse will service.
In MP2, warehouses had one primary site for which it could perform transactions; however,
the warehouse could perform transactions for other sites displayed in MP2 Inventory Setup.
In HxGN EAM, storerooms (warehouses) are tied to one organization and can only perform

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1890 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

transactions for the specific organization.
If you select to skip conversion of any MP2 warehouse into HxGN EAM, the system will
convert the inventory record associated with the specific MP2 warehouse, but will not convert
the details (e.g., quantities on hand) of the warehouse inventory record.

MP2 conversion options - step 5 of 13
Convert the MP2 employees.
Select to convert MP2 employees into the HxGN EAM common organization, or select to
convert MP2 employees into a specific organization in HxGN EAM based upon the
employee's MP2 Site ID. In MP2, an employee assigned to Site 1 could perform work (work
order) in Site 1, Site 2, Site 3, and so forth. To mimic this behavior in HxGN EAM, select to
convert MP2 employees into the Infor EAM common organization so that the employees are
available.
By selecting to convert the employees based on their MP2 Site ID, the system will convert the
employees into the HxGN EAM organization chosen for the MP2 Site in Step 1.

MP2 conversion options - step 6 of 13
Convert MP2 locations.
MP2 locations are combinations of four unique fields.
MP2 examples

MP2 Location=WEST
CAMPUS
MP2 Sub-Location 1=BLDG1
MP2 Sub-Location
2=FLOOR3

AND

MP2 Location=WEST CAMPUS
MP2 Sub-Location 1=BLDG1
MP2 Sub-Location 2=FLOOR2
MP2 Sub-Location
3=ROOM205

MP2 Sub-Location
3=ROOM306

MP2 Location and MP2 Sub-Location 1 for each of these examples are exactly the same.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1891 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

However, if you examine the entire combination of four fields, you will see they are completely
different. One is room 306 on the 3rd floor and the other is room 205 on the 2nd floor.
In HxGN EAM, you may have only one field displayed at a time, while in MP2 screens
displayed all 4 fields, such as, WEST CAMPUS and BLDG1 would be displayed separately on
the HxGN EAM screens. This is sufficient if you are constructing your HxGN EAM hierarchy
from scratch; however, MP2 fields must be unique when converting. Here is an example of
how to make the one 30 character field unique:
HxGN EAM example

WEST CAMPUS-BLDG1-ROOM306
WEST CAMPUS-BLDG1-ROOM205
There are 25 characters in the example. This is less than the 30 character maximum in HxGN
EAM. MP2Sub-Location 2 has been taken out, but users may still find the proper location.
If you chose this setup your grid would look like this:

Prefix

Field

Start Position

Length

Suffix

<blank>

Location

1

11

-

<blank>

MP2 Sublocation 1

1

5

-

<blank>

MP2 Sublocation 3

1

7

This would guarantee field lengths covered at least the largest location and was still less than
30 characters. The system will cut off all data at the maximum length specified.
You may also use the prefix option to convert MP2 Sub-locations 1's. Here is an example:

Prefix

Field

Start Position

Length

Suffix

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1892 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

GVILLE

<blank>

-

MP2 Sublocation 1

1

5

This would be the end result:
GVILLE-BLDG1
GVILLE-BLDG2

MP2 conversion options - step 7 of 13
Convert the MP2 vendor.
MP2 vendors are a combination of two unique fields. For example, in MP2 you could have:

MP2 Vendor=GRAINGER

AND

MP2 Vendor=GRAINGER

MP2 Vendor
Branch=GREENVILLE

MP2 Vendor Branch=ATLANTA

In HxGN EAM, you may have one field displayed, e.g., GRAINGER would be displayed only
once.
Here is an example of how to make the one 30 character field unique:
GRAINGER-GREENVILLE
The total character length is 19. This example works for vendors and vendor branches whose
character lengths don't exceed 14. You may separate the values by '-' and still get in the full
length of vendors.
The setup would look like this in the grid:

Prefix

Field

Start Position

Length

Suffix

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1893 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

<blank>

MP2
Vendor

1

14

<blank>

MP2
Vendor
Branch 1

1

14

-

Another option is to only have the MP2 Vendor column converted and to remove the MP2
Vendor Branch identification. By choosing to do this, the system will take the first MP2 Vendor
record and bring over the detailed information such as address, payment terms, etc. and then
not bring over the detailed information for the second MP2 Vendor with the same ID but
different MP2 Vendor Branch. This selection would still keep the part/supplier information in
tact. Here is an example:

Prefix

<blank>

Field

MP2
Vendor

Start Position

1

Length

Suffix

14

In this example, two vendors would come over as one:
GRAINGER

MP2 conversion options - step 8 of 13
Convert the MP2 tasks.
MP2 tasks are a unique combination of the 15 character site field and the 20 character task
field. Contrastingly,in HxGN EAM there is one 20-character PM schedule or standard work
order field that does not use the HxGN EAM organization as part of the primary key. All MP2
tasks that have equipment will become PM schedules and all MP2 tasks that do not have
equipment will become standard work orders. For example:
MP2 example

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1894 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

MP2 Site=GREENVILLE

AND

MP2 Site=ATLANTA

MP2 Task=3M-OILCHANGE

MP2 Task=3M-OILCHANGE

In HxGN EAM you may only have one field that can have the same PM schedule value when
converting the Task IDs from MP2. Here is an example:
GRE-3M-OILCHANGE
ATL-3M-OILCHANGE
The characters are both less than the 20 character maximum of HxGN EAM. In this example,
the values of both fields were merged and separated by a '-'. If in your tasks list there are not
any tasks and site combinations exceeding the 20 character maximum, you may still separate
the values by a '-' and enter the full length of tasks IDs. Here is an example:

Prefix

Field

Start Position

Length

<blank>

MP2 Site

1

3

<blank>

MP2 Task

1

16

Suffix

-

This would guarantee field lengths covered at least the largest site/task combination and was
still less than 30 characters. The system will cut off all data at the maximum length specified.
You may also select to only convert MP2 Tasks if you are certain no duplicate task ID exists in
another site. If a duplicate Task exists, the second record will process as an error in the
conversion process. This error can be corrected and reprocessed. Here is an example of
converting Tasks only:

Prefix

<blank>

Field

MP2 Task

Start Position

1

Length

Suffix

20

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1895 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

MP2 conversion options - step 9 of 13
Convert MP2 equipment meters.
Indicate how to convert MP2 equipment meters into HxGN EAM.
MP2 and HxGN EAM meter naming functionality differs. MP2 allows the same meter name for
multiple pieces of equipment; however, HxGN EAM requires that equipment have a unique 20
character meter name. Here are examples from both MP2 and HxGN EAM.

Equipment=BOILER1

AND

Equipment=FORKLIFT1

MP2 Meter Name=HOUR

MP2 Meter Name=HOUR

In HxGN EAM, a unique meter ID is required to allow features such as meter roll down and
meter replacement. Here is an example of what you may do for the conversion into HxGN
EAM:
HxGN EAM Example

Meter Name=FORKLIFT1-HOUR
Meter Name=BOILER1-HOUR
The characters are both less than the 20 character maximum of HxGN EAM. In this example,
the values of both fields were merged and separated by a '-'. If in your equipment and meters
list there are not any equipment and meter combinations exceeding the 20 character
maximum, you may still separate the values by a '-' and enter the full length of meters. Here is
an example:

Prefix

Field

Start Position

Length

<blank>

Equipment 1

14

<blank>

Meter

5

1

Suffix

-

This would guarantee field lengths covered at least the largest equipment/meter combination

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1896 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and was still less than 30 characters. The system will cut off all data at the maximum length
specified.
Another option is to sequentially generate meter names, which would give the meter names a
unique code with a beginning sequential number that you choose.

MP2 conversion options - step 10 of 13
Convert the MP2 roles.
Select a destination group in HxGN EAM to convert the MP2 roles. The selected group will
replace the MP2 role when the users and the site role assignments are converted. Only user
groups created in HxGN EAM are displayed.
If you select to skip the role conversion process, R5 (system administrator) rights are
assigned to all users that are converted. The users will be placed into the R5 User Group in
HxGN EAM, and may be modified after the conversion process. During the conversion, only
site role assignments will be converted. MP2 purchasing center or warehouse role
assignments are not converted.

MP2 conversion options - step 11 of 13
Convert priorities of MP2 work orders.
Select how to convert MP2 work order priorities. The conversion will only affect the work order
priorities of the converted tasks. In HxGN EAM, the work order priority field is a field in which
users select from a valid priority.
The grid displays the number of work order priorities that exist in HxGN EAM. Once the work
order priorities are displayed in the grid, the MP2 range of priorities can be set up in order to
convert them into the proper HxGN EAM priority.
MP2 priorities cannot overlap or users will receive an error. The system does allow gaps in
numbering or a blank row in the grid. The priority field is not required in HxGN EAM;
therefore, MP2 work order priorities are not required to be mapped.
Here is an example of six work order priorities in HxGN EAM:

Source Low Value

Source High Value

Destination Priority

Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1897 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1.00

1.99

1

Affects health
and safety

2.00

2.99

2

Affects output
immediately

3.00

3.99

3

Affects output
within 24 hours

4.00

4.99

4

Does not affect
output
immediately;
spare exists

5.00

5.99

5

Does not affect
process/effect
is minor

6.00

9999.99

6

Non-vital
equipment

If you follow this example, no work order priority in MP2 will be excluded in the conversion
process. No MP2 work order priority can be less than 1.00, and by setting the source high
value to 9999.99 on the last number, the conversion process will convert any work order
priority greater than 6.00, and will fall into the 6 work order priority in HxGN EAM.

MP2 conversion options - step 12 of 13
Convert MP2 equipment criticalities.
Select how to convert MP2 equipment criticalities into HxGN EAM. In HxGN EAM, the
equipment criticality field is a field in which users must select from a valid criticality.
The grid displays the number of equipment criticalities that exist in HxGN EAM. Once the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1898 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equipment criticalities are displayed in the grid, the MP2 range of equipment criticalities can
be set up in order to convert them into the proper HxGN EAM equipment criticality.
MP2 equipment criticalities cannot overlap or users will receive an error. The system does
allow gaps in numbering or a blank row in the grid. The equipment criticality field is not
required in HxGN EAM; therefore, MP2 equipment criticalities are not required to be mapped.
Here is an example of six equipment criticalities in HxGN EAM:

Source Low Value

Source High Value

Destination Criticality

Description

1.00

1.99

1

Emergency/Im
mediate

2.00

2.99

2

Urgent/Less
than 24 hours

3.00

3.99

3

Required
within 24-48
hours

4.00

4.99

4

Required
within one
week

5.00

5.99

5

Required
within one
month

6.00

9999.99

6

Required at
first
opportunity or
shutdown

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1899 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

If you follow this example, no equipment criticality in MP2 will be excluded in the conversion
process. No MP2 equipment criticality can be less than 1.00, and by setting the source high
value to 9999.99 on the last number, the conversion process will convert any equipment
criticality greater than 6.00, and will fall into the 6 equipment criticality in HxGN EAM.

MP2 conversion options - step 13 of 13
Convert the MP2 source work order type.
Destination Work Order Type in HxGN EAM will replace the Source Work Order Type from
MP2 during the work order type conversion process. All MP2 tasks that have equipment
assigned without a work order type will be converted as Preventive Maintenance. All MP2
tasks that have no equipment assigned without a work order type will be converted as
Breakdown.
Setting up work order types in HxGN EAM provides a better understanding of the term
'system code' and how different work order types behave within HxGN EAM. For example, if
you set up a work order type with a system code of PM, then the system will only display this
work order type when creating PM Schedules in HxGN EAM. The system will not display this
work order type when simply creating work orders in HxGN EAM.
This step also provides an opportunity to convert multiple MP2 work order types into a single
HxGN EAM work order type to help clean up data.
If you select to skip the work order type conversion process, or skip conversion of a work
order type that is on an MP2 task, the system will convert all MP2 tasks and assign the work
order types as stated above.

MP2 work orders
Menu Path

Administration > MP2 History
Description

View historical MP2 data that was uploaded into the HxGN EAM system. Historical MP2 data
includes work requests, work orders, purchasing, quotations, SPM readings, meter readings,
and inventory transactions.
1. Select Administration > MP2 History > MP2 Work Orders.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1900 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

2. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields, and then click Run.
3. View the MP2 work orders history.

MP2 work requests
Menu Path

Administration > MP2 History
Description

View historical MP2 data that was uploaded into the HxGN EAM system. Historical MP2 data
includes work requests, work orders, purchasing, quotations, SPM readings, meter readings,
and inventory transactions.
1. Select Administration > MP2 History > MP2 Work Requests.
2. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields, and then click Run.
3. View the MP2 work requests history.

MP2 purchasing
Menu Path

Administration > MP2 History
Description

View historical MP2 data that was uploaded into the HxGN EAM system. Historical MP2 data
includes work requests, work orders, purchasing, quotations, SPM readings, meter readings,
and inventory transactions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1901 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

1. Select Administration > MP2 History > MP2 Work Orders.
2. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields, and then click Run.
3. View the MP2 history.

MP2 quotations
Menu Path

Administration > MP2 History
Description

View historical MP2 data that was uploaded into the HxGN EAM system. Historical MP2 data
includes work requests, work orders, purchasing, quotations, SPM readings, meter readings,
and inventory transactions.
1. Select Administration > MP2 History > MP2 Quotations.
Alternately, select other MP2 historical data options to view like work orders, work
requests, purchasing, inventory transactions, meter readings, and SPM readings.
2. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields, and then click Run.
3. View the MP2 history.

MP2 inventory transactions
Description

View historical MP2 data that was uploaded into the HxGN EAM application. Historical MP2
data includes work requests, work orders, purchasing, quotations, SPM readings, meter

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1902 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

readings, and inventory transactions.
1. Select Administration > MP2 History > MP2 Inventory Transactions.
2. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy. The system applies
the Dataspy to the list view.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields, and then click Run.
3. View the MP2 history.

MP2 meter readings
Menu Path

Administration > MP2 History
Description

View historical MP2 data that was uploaded into the HxGN EAM system. Historical MP2 data
includes work requests, work orders, purchasing, quotations, SPM readings, meter readings,
and inventory transactions.
1. Select Administration > MP2 History > MP2 Meter Readings.
2. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields, and then click Run.
3. View the MP2 history.

MP2 SPM readings
Description

View historical MP2 data that was uploaded into the HxGN EAM system. Historical MP2 data
includes work requests, work orders, purchasing, quotations, SPM readings, meter readings,

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1903 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

and inventory transactions.
1. Select Administration > MP2 History > MP2 SPM Readings.
2. Choose one of the following options:
Dataspy - Select an existing Dataspy or edit an existing Dataspy.
Quick Filter - Define a quick filter to filter the list of records in the lookup based on the
key fields, and then click Run. MP2 data records are shown.
3. View the MP2 history.

Multi-org security
Menu Path

Administration > Security > Multi-org Security
Description

Multi-organization security (MOS) is a feature that allows the system administrator to set up
separate, secured, logical databases within the organization. There is one logical database
for each organization; however, there is still one physical system database. To activate MOS,
you must set the MULTIORG installation parameter to YES. After activating MOS, you cannot
deactivate it. Depending on the type of security set up, the system does not allow users to
view or influence data from organizations to which they do not belong.
With MOS, the system becomes more user-driven, rather than user-group driven, making it
possible for users to have different roles. Associate users with more than one organization
and establish a default organization for that user. The system automatically displays the
user's default organization at login, which can be changed to any organization to which the
user has access. To switch organizations after login, simply log out and log back in as the
new organization. After logging in to a specific organization, users can view and influence
data specific to all the organizations to which they have access and all information defined as
common, which is information accessible across all organizations and users.
When inserting new records, the system automatically associates the record to the
organization of the current login session; however, users can change the organization to any
organization to which they have access.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1904 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Using multi-organization security (MOS), establish record-level security for system forms
depending on the organization of the record. To utilize record-level security for a form, first
activate MOS capability for the entity associated with each function.

My account
Menu Path

Click My Account on the header.
Description

Change your e-mail address, system language, and login password as necessary.

Nonconformities
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities > Nonconformities
Description

Record and track nonconformities or issues with equipment. Each nonconformity can have
multiple observations. You can track the development of these nonconformities, create work
orders for nonconformities, and associate checklists with nonconformities.
On the Condition Score Matrix Setup screen you can define any combination of Severity,
Intensity, Size, and Importance and associate a Condition Score, Condition Index, and
Next Inspection Date. This matrix is used to determine a Condition Score, Condition
Score Index, and Next Inspection Date of a nonconformity.

Nonconformities analysis chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets
Equipment > Positions
Equipment > Systems
Select the Nonconformities Analysis tab.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1905 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

The nonconformity analysis chart displays a breakdown of nonconformities by severity,
intensity, importance, or condition index.

Nonconformities setup
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities > Nonconformities Setup
Description

Select Mass Acknowledgement Allowed to allow the mass acknowledgement of
observations from mobile applications. You can choose to copy the severity, intensity, size,
importance, next inspection date, and user defined fields from the nonconformity header or
the another observation of the same nonconformity.
On the Status Dependencies tab you can create and maintain observation status codes and
their effect on the nonconformity header status. You can specify that if the observation of a
nonconformity is updated to a specific status, then the nonconformity header record is also
updated to a specific status.

Nonconformity observations
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities > Nonconformity Observations
Description

Create observations for new nonconformities on the Nonconformities screen or create new
observations for existing nonconformities on the Nonconformity Observations screen.
Specify results for checklists associated with nonconformity observations. You can use
checklists to verify that observation data was collected correctly.

Nonconformity types
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Nonconformities > Nonconformity Types

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1906 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Nonconformity types can be associated with material types, parts, and EMRS. Nonconformity
types marked as general can be used for any equipment.

Notebook
Menu Path

Equipment > Notebook
Description

Record notes and details about defects for equipment. You can specify specific notes,
nonconformity details, physical location details, and user defined fields. Select Private to
make the notebook record editable only by the user who created it.
You can also add references and email transactions to notebook records on the References
and Emails tabs.

Objectives
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Objectives
Description

Define your organization's tactical initiatives as objectives. Tactical initiatives are short-term
goals that help an organization achieve its strategic, long-term goals. The expected results
and when the results are expected will be specifically stated.
For example, an objective can be to reduce electrical consumption at the Greenville, SC
facility by 10 percent in fiscal year 2014. You can select energy as the target type and
consumption as the target sub-type. Another example is to reduce hazardous waste at the
Greenville, SC facility by 15 percent in fiscal year 2013. You can select waste as the target
type and hazardous as the target sub-type.
Answer survey questions for the objective on the Ranking Survey tab.

OEE metrics report

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1907 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > OEE Metrics
Equipment > Positions > OEE Metrics
Equipment > Systems > OEE Metrics
You must first select the record, and then click the OEE Metrics tab.
Description

The OEE metrics report shows the overall efficiency of equipment based on the availability,
performance, and quality of the equipment.

Open service requests report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Open Service Requests
Description

Displays the service requests with an Open status.

Operator checklist
Menu Path

Work > Additional Features > Operator Checklist > Operator Checklist
Description

Use this form to view and create checklist results for equipment on this form without going to
the Checklist tab of the Work Order form.

Optimized scheduler setup
Allocate field work activities for dispatch to crews in the field.
The constraint optimizer is a scheduling tool allocating field work activities for dispatch. The
constraint optimizer determines the best solution based on resource and activity constraints
such as qualifications, priority and travel distance. This scheduling capability helps back office

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1908 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

management meet the challenges of dispatch planning, while ensuring field work spends
more time on priority activities rather than driving between locations. When a schedule
request is initiated, this optimizer uses data to match the best resources to activities and
arranges the assignments in sequential order that is most effective, given the day’s
constraints.
To determine assignments:
• the constraint optimizer matches resources to activities based on required qualifications
and number of people
• the resource-activity are optimized and arranged to match based on activity priority,
travel distance, and shift availability
• the constraint optimizer looks at various combinations of these assignments and
arrangements to determine the best schedule solution
The best schedule is returned to the requestor, providing a sequentially ordered list of activity
assignments for each resource.

Organizations
Menu Path

Administration > Security > Organizations
Description

Define organizations within your enterprise for security, assets, financial and functional
purposes. Add locations, define fiscal years, and add or import users to further define your
enterprise.
Fiscal years help indicate the fiscal periods on which to base asset depreciation for your
organization.
Define options for organizations which function much like installation parameters.

Overdue vehicle issues/returns list report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Overdue Vehicle Issue/Return List

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1909 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays all overdue vehicle rentals including vehicle issues and returns for customer rental
contracts. Vehicles are considered overdue when they remain unreturned by the customer
after the specified return date and time on the rental contract, or the vehicle has not been
issued by the specified rental date and time on the rental contract.

Overview
Menu Path

Operations > Overview
Description

Customize the Overview screen by adding widgets to populate data important to you for
quick access. Once widgets are added, drag and drop the widgets to move them around on
the screen. View and modify the layout as desired.

Packages
Menu Path

Materials > Held Items Management > Packages
Description

Create packages with multiple parts that can be approved, issued, or returned together.
You can add parts to packages on the Parts tab and track transactions of packages on the
Transactions tab.

Databridge partners
Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > Databridge Partners
Description

Configuring the partners of your Databridge network enables communication between the
Databridge application server and the partner server(s). You can also set up subscriptions for
the partner to indicate the outbound transactions/documents that the partner uses.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1910 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Penalty deduction detail
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Penalty Deduction Detail
Description

Displays penalty deduction details for work orders.

Penalty deduction summary
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Penalty Deduction Summary
Description

Displays a penalty deduction summary for equipment.

Permit to work
Menu Path

Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work
Description

Create and promote a safe work environment for your employees by defining permits to work.
The permit to work details the hazards and precautions required to remove or prevent a
potential hazard to your employee's safety.
An efficient permit to work includes:
• Details of potential hazards
• Details of the precautions to take to prevent potential hazards
• Any required lockout/tagout operations

Databridge partner job schedules
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1911 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Administration > Databridge > Databridge Partner Job Schedules
Description

A partner job is a process of running a customized java class plugged into Databridge, to
prepare data to be sent to Databridge or to further process data received from Databridge to
comply with various integration requirements. You can use this feature to create an execution
schedule for a partner job.

Part condition template
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Part Condition Templates
Description

Define part condition templates when your organization reuses parts and needs to track the
parts by their condition. Part condition templates define which conditions you can use to track
parts. You can track parts throughout their life cycle. For example, the part condition can be
new, used, rebuilt less than five times, or rebuilt more than five times.
When creating parts, Tracked by Condition must be selected. When a part is tracked by
condition, the system creates a child record for each condition that is added to the part
condition template.

Part warranty claims
Menu Path

Materials > Part Warranty Claims
Description

As parts fail, warranty claims can be created for the parts to receive a replacement or cash
settlement by using the Part Warranty Claim screen.
Use the Parts tab to associate parts with the part warranty claim. The Imported Parts tab is
a read-only grid that displays what parts have been imported in for the part warranty claim.

Performance formulas

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1912 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Define formulas used to calculate equipment performance. A formula consists of four
variables that include, condition, capacity, MTBF (mean time between failure), and MTTR
(mean time to repair), as well as six user defined variables. Each variable is assigned a
weight which determines how much it contributes to the overall performance of the
equipment.

Permit to work setup
Menu Path

Work > Permit to Work > Permit to Work Setup
Description

Define permit to work setup options to format the maximum initial duration, maximum number
of extensions, and the maximum extension duration of a permit to work.

PM completion for life support equipment
Menu Path

Work > Reports > PM Completion Report for Life Support Equipment
Description

Print the report detailing the PM completion for life support equipment. The report displays all
work orders with PPM type.

PM repair costs chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > PM Repair Costs Chart
You may also access this report on the PM Repair Costs Chart tab of the Positions
and Systems forms.
Description

Prints the PM work order repair costs chart report.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1913 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

PM due overview report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > PM Due Overview
Description

Prints the PM due overview report.

Precautions
Menu Path

Work > Permit to Work > Precautions
Description

Define precautions to safeguard workers from potential hazards in the workplace such as
working with fire and flammable equipment, lifting heavy objects, handling sharp objects,
working near roadsides, or working at heights.

Print contract
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > Print Contracts
Description

Prints a copy of the contract.

Print customer contract
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Customer Contract
Description

Includes details on customer contracts and revisions.

Print hospitality work orders

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1914 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Orders
Description

Includes details on equipment tracking, compliance, activities, and booked labor hours.

Print notebook report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Print Notebook Report
Description

Print the notebook report with details about the notebook records.

Print permit to work
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Permit to Work
Description

Report displays a list of all permits to work with Status of Approved or Active. Includes all
comments for safety records and lockout/tagout records, user defined fields, lockout/tagout
tags, and hazard rating system information.

Printers
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Printers
Description

Set up one or multiple printers to use across your organization.

Proof of delivery
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1915 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Reports > Proof of Delivery
Description

Displays proof that a work order was delivered or performed.

Properties
Menu Path

Work > Service Request > Properties
Description

Define property code-structures for service requests that reflect actual property-buildingfloor/unit hierarchies.
When defining property code-structure combinations for service requests, you must first
define a level one property before you can create lower levels. For example, you must insert a
record for Property A before inserting a record for Property A Building 1.

Providers
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Providers
Description

Create providers to facilitate knowledge base searches, process customer requests and
comments, and to provide additional levels of reporting for a department.

PO history
Description

View the purchase order histories of purchase orders using the PO History screen. You can
select a specific purchase order and view the purchase order history for the current revision
and all previous revisions of the purchase order. This screen displays the same information
and includes the same tabs as the Purchase Orders form.

PO terms

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1916 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Purchasing > Setup > PO Terms
Description

Define purchase order terms to use in purchase order activities. Various suppliers might have
different types of purchase terms. The system has five predefined types of purchase order
terms. You can also edit purchase order terms as necessary.

Point types
Menu Path

Work > Inspections > Point Types
Description

Inspection point types are groups of similar inspection points. Associating inspection points
with point types simplifies data entry and analysis by standardizing descriptions.

Print PO
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Print PO
Description

Includes a purchase order header and both part and service line items. By default, the report
selects the current revision of purchase orders with a status of Ready for printing or
Approved and those that do not have Printed selected.
Print purchase orders that do not have a status of Ready for Printing or Approved, or those
that already have Printed selected by specifying a purchase order number on the parameter
form.

POs awaiting invoicing
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > POs Awaiting Invoicing

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1917 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

The report includes the related requisition and purchase order numbers, the part or service
ordered, the outstanding quantity, the unit of measure for the items, and the order price per
unit for goods or services.

PO status
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > PO Status
Description

View basic purchase order information such as status, order date, supplier, and quantities
requested, received, and returned.

PO cost summary
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > PO Cost Summary
Description

View cost information grouped by Store, Supplier, Cost Code, Buyer, or Project.

Project budget code cost summary
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > Project Budget Code Cost Summary
Description

Displays a summary of project costs by budget code.

Project budgets
Menu Path

Work > Projects > Project Budgets
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1918 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define budget codes to be associated with projects and designate default budget codes.

Projects
Menu Path

Work > Projects > Projects
Description

Define special projects in addition to the work defined in the work management and asset
management modules. Examples of special projects are painting a room or building a new
production line. Break large projects down into more manageable sub-projects, and assign
individual work orders to each step. You can also set up budget requirements and monitor
costs for projects. Charge work orders and purchase orders against projects. Actual costs,
committed costs, and planned costs are shown; eliminating the necessity of guesswork.
Projects can be designated as CU design projects for use with the compatible units estimation
process.

Project cost breakdown
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > Project Cost Breakdown
Description

Displays an overview of cost per project per budget.

Project cost summary
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Projects > Project Cost Summary
Description

Displays a summary of estimated, planned, ordered, actual, and total cost per project.

Project POs
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1919 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Reports > Projects > Project POs
Description

Displays a summarized list of purchase orders created to procure materials and external
services.

Pricing variance
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Price Variance
Description

Displays a list of purchase orders where discrepancies exist between the purchase order and
the invoice. Select to group by Purchase Order, Class, Supplier, or Buyer.

Print purchase order
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Print PO
Description

Includes a purchase order header and both part and service line items. By default, the report
selects the current revision of purchase orders with a status of "Ready for printing" or
"Approved" and those that do not have "Printed" selected. Print purchase orders that do not
have a status of "Ready for Printing" or "Approved," or those that already have "Printed"
selected by specifying a purchase order number on the parameter form.
Parameters

Print Attachments - Select to print document attachments associated with purchase orders
in addition to the purchase order.
Include All Revisions - Select to include all revisions to the purchase order.
Show Internal Part# - Select to include the internal part number.
Include Cost Code - Select to include the cost code.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1920 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Reprint - Select to print purchase orders that have been printed previously.
The system prints only the requisition total in Euro currency.
Specify the Organization, Store Organization, Purchase Order, and Buyer.
Report Type

Basic

Purchase history per PO/supplier
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Purchase History Per PO/Supplier
Description

Displays all purchase orders for a given supplier.

Purchase orders
Menu Path

Purchasing > Purchase Orders
Description

The purchase order creation process has several steps. First, create the purchase order
header and then add line items for parts and services. At this stage, you can also adjust part
charges, associate clauses, create work orders and activities from service lines, and
associate assets for parts tracked by asset. Next, change the status to Ready for printing to
print the purchase order for approval.
Finally, approve the purchase order and send it to the supplier. To change the status of a
purchase order, enter a new status on the Record View page of the Purchase Orders form.

Purchasing contract text
Menu Path

Purchasing > Contracts > Purchasing Contract Text

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1921 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Purchasing contract text contains basic, predefined information about the contract. Text is
predefined for the default contract class and contains such information as suppliers, time
frames, and buyer information. Purchasing contract text fields allow the user to change the
text labels on the printed contract. Create and edit purchasing contract text to appear on the
printed purchasing contract.

Purchasing clauses
Menu Path

Purchasing > Setup > Purchasing Clauses
Description

Use the International Standards Organization (ISO) purchasing clauses predefined in the
system, or define purchasing clauses to suit your organization's needs. You can also edit
purchasing clauses after creating them as necessary. Finally, you can create hierarchies with
a general purchasing clause as a parent and more specific purchasing clauses set up as
children.

Purchasing contracts
Menu Path

Purchasing > Contracts > Purchasing Contracts
Description

Purchasing contracts detail agreements for parts. Details include such information as
suppliers,time-frames, and buyer facts as well as percentage discounts arranged for each
contract according to order or duration.

Purchasing setup
Description

Define purchasing setup options to format the module to your specifications.

Print work order - comprehensive

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1922 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Orders > Print Work Order - Comprehensive
Description

Includes comprehensive work order details, task listing, diagnostics, repair details, and
related equipment information.
Related topics

Print customer contract
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Contract Management > Print Customer Contract
Description

View a contract for a specific customer. Choose whether to include pricing schedules,
arranged work order types, unfinished/approved related customer contracts, fixed payments,
and calculated work orders.

Print customer charges
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Asset Management > Print Customer Charges
Description

Displays a list of work order charges that are the responsibility of the customer.

Print invoice
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Asset Management Services > Print Invoice
Description

Prints an invoice for a specific customer and work order.

Print healthcare work orders

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1923 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Orders Healthcare
Description

Includes details on equipment tracking, compliance, activities, and booked labor hours.

Permits for WOs
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Permits > Permits for WOs
Description

Displays copies of work permits for a particular work order.

Part failures
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Part Failures
Description

Displays the percentage of parts that failed versus parts that were issued. Data for this report
comes from failures listed on the Part Failures page and the Parts page of the Work Orders
form.

PM compliance
Menu Path

Work > Reports > PM Compliance
Description

Includes compliance details for PM work orders.

PM forecasting
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1924 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > WO Planning > PM Forecasting
Description

Displays a printed representation of a PM forecasting session similar to what is displayed on
the actual PM Forecasting form.

PM schedule profile report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > PM Schedule Profile
Description

Displays a list of PM schedule details and activity information along with optional task
instructions and route information.

PM work packages
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > PM Work Packages
Description

PM work packages function similarly to batch processes, and they can be released
simultaneously.

Part number history
Menu Path

Materials > Overview > Part Number History
Description

View the history of modifications for part numbers. View the new part number, the old part
number, the date/time, and the user associated with the change. The records that are
displayed on this screen are created by selecting the Change Part Number right-click option
on the Record View tab of the Parts screen.

Print reliability survey report

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1925 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Print Reliability Survey
Description

Specify the reliability ranking for which to print survey reports.

Print maintenance pattern report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Maintenance Pattern
Description

Print a maintenance pattern record.

PO updates
Menu Path

Purchasing > Process > PO Update
Description

To print purchase order updates, select the purchase orders to print, and then click Print
Selected PO.

Print Flex business rules list
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > Print Flex Business Rules List
Description

Print a Flex business rules list report.

Print build kit list
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Print Build Kit List

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1926 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Includes details on kit parts and kits built. You can also print this report by selecting Print
Build Kit List on the Build Kit screen.

Print kit restock list
Menu Path

Materials > Kits > Breakup Kit
Description

Print the kit restock list that includes details on the parts held for restocking once a kit is
broken up and parts are to be returned to stock. View parts, store bins, quantities to store,
repair bins, and quantities to repair.

Policies
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Policies
Description

Define your organization's corporate initiatives as policies. For example, a policy can be a
corporate initiative to improve energy performance. Answer survey questions for the policy on
the Ranking Survey tab.

Service request portal login
Non-EAM users can access the service request portal to log incident and service requests.
Using the URL provided, log in the application using your customer user ID in Caller ID, and
optionally your Portal ID.
Click Log In.
Guest users may request registration on the Create Service Request screen after logging in.
Click Guest Entry to log in as a guest.

Print work order - healthcare

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1927 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Order-Healthcare
Description

Includes details on equipment tracking, compliance, activities, and booked labor hours.

Print asset inventory list
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Print Asset Inventory List
Description

Print a list of asset inventory to compare the system physical location of the asset with the
actual physical location of the asset. Define the parameters for the asset inventory on the
Parameters tab which specifies counting criteria, and then perform the actual count manually
or using a hand-held device.

Project summary chart
Menu Path

Work > Projects > Project Summary Chart
Description

Displays a chart of costs associated with projects.
You must select a project for which to generate the report, and then click the Project
Summary Chart tab.

Part stockouts report
Menu Path

Material > Reports > Part Stockouts
Description

Record a stockout when the part's Qty. on Hand is not enough to fill the demanded Part Qty.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1928 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Python Studio
This Python Studio screen (powered by JupyterLab) opens an instance of JupyterLab, a
Python script authoring tool.
Related topics

HxGN EAM Python Framework
HxGN EAM Python Studio and Flex Python Scripting (technical brief)
HxGN EAM Python Studio (Flex Python) Technical Reference

Queries
Menu Path

Administration > Start Center Setup > Queries
Description

Define queries using existing HxGN EAM data or SQL statements. Use SQL statements to
define complex validation queries or validation queries to multiple system tables.

QR codes setup
Description

Generate QR codes for multiple uses. QR code is an abbreviation of Quick Response Code.
It resembles black squares arranged in a square grid on a white background. The image is
read by an imaging device such as a camera, and links users to a specific URL. QR codes
can be used for document management, asset or product tracking, item identification, and
various other uses.

Ranking history chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Ranking History Chart
You may also access this report on the Ranking History Chart tab of the Systems
or Positions forms.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1929 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Print the ranking history chart report. The chart includes the condition index, risk priority
index, and criticality index. The chart can be viewed by date or by usage.

Reliability calculations
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Reliability Calculations
Description

View and print the reliability calculations chart.
You may also access this report on the Reliability Calculations tab of the Positions
form.

RCM equipment at risk report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > RCM Equipment At Risk Report
Description

This report shows assets that have a certain minimum risk level and do not have preventative
maintenance planned.

RCM potential yearly savings report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > RCM Potential Yearly Savings
Description

This report displays equipment or non-critical assets up to a certain risk level with PM and
maintenance pattern cost information attached. The costs are converted to an annual budget
and provide data on potential savings in the case where preventive maintenance is not
performed on non-critical assets.
Only assets with the maximum risk level or lower threshold risk levels are selected and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1930 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

displayed.

RCM risk levels report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > RCM Risk Levels
Description

The RCM (Reliability Centered Maintenance) Risk Levels report shows the output of a RCM
risk assessment or risk analysis. The report includes risk matrix set-up records where Type is
Risk Level.

Reliability growth
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Reliability Growth Equipment > Systems > Reliability Growth
Equipment > Positions > Reliability Growth
Description

View reliability growth for equipment based on a specified calculation method.

Request discount based on purchases
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Contracts > Request Discount Based on Purchases
Description

Prints a request to a supplier for the discount based on the purchase orders in the contract
period.

Regions
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Regions
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1931 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create and update region codes for tracking degree days.

Report organization structure
Menu Path

Operational Area > Facility > Campus > State > Country > Continent > Worldwide
Description

Create an organizational tree-structure to roll up reporting on performance statistics, energy
consumption, and resource utilization. Define an organizational structure by which you control
the roll-up of energy consumption.

Reports
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Reports
Description

Define new parameters for existing reports, modify parameters for existing reports, or create
entirely new reports.

Reservation calendar
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Reservation Calendar
Description

You can double-click on the calendar or click and drag to create an equipment reservation for
a certain period of time.
You can specify defaults for the reservation calendar on the Reservation Calendar tab of the
Screen Setup screen.

Response time by department report
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1932 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Reports > Response Time By Department
Description

Displays department response time to work orders.

Review reservation requests
Menu Path

Work > Contract Management > Review Reservation Requests
Description

View a list of reservation requests ready for approval and then either accept or reject the
reservation request.

Review operator checklist
Menu Path

Work > Additional Features > Operator Checklist > Review Operator Checklist
Description

Use this form to review and complete checklist results for equipment without going to the
Checklist tab of the Work Order form.

Ring list - detail report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Ring List-Detail
Description

View ring details such as the description, keys, type, and status.

Risk matrix report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Risk Matrix

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1933 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

The report is only generated for records where the type is specified as Consequence
Category on the Risk Matrix Setup screen.

Risk matrix setup
Menu Path

Equipment > Setup > Risk Matrix Setup
Description

Define consequences and consequence costs on the Consequences and Consequence
Costs tabs.

Roles
Menu Path

Administration > Security > Role Setup
Description

Store user credentials across many applications with roles. Define roles to serve as templates
for Lightweight Directory Access Protocols (LDAP) that can store hierarchical data definitions
across platforms. LDAP is most often used to store user credentials across many
applications. Create LDAP roles for automatic user creation.

Root cause analysis
Identify the root cause of an equipment failure.
Root cause analysis functionality is related to case management features. See the sections
on case management for more information.

Safety matrix
Menu Path

Work > Permit to Work > Safety Matrix
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1934 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Identify and associate hazards and precautions that occur when certain maintenance
activities are performed on specified equipment. The hazards and precautions associated on
this screen depend on the combination of equipment or location and the activity performed on
that equipment or location. For example, if welding is required to fix a leak in a tank that
contains a flammable liquid, that is an explosion or fire hazard. Other activities on that tank
that do not require an open flame may have other associated hazards that do not include risk
of an explosion or fire.

Safety review required
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Safety Review Required
Description

The report retrieves the records that have not been previously reviewed.

Screen designer for Digital Work
Description

Modify the page layout of record view, detail view, and list-detail view pages for the Digital
Work app. You can move fields, modify the display type of fields, and rename field labels.
Contact your system administrator for information on Screen Designer.

Screens
Menu Path

Administration > Screen Configuration > Screens
Description

Create new screens or modify existing screens by associating icons with screens setting
background-printing parameters for reports, changing text, defining custom tabs, and
associating Dataspies and users.

SDx integration configuration
This screen supports the integration of HxGN EAM and HxGN SDx, and is used to populate

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1935 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the required parameters. Configure the connection details for the integration between EAM
and SDx.
Related topics

Configuring SDx integration
HxGN EAM SDx Integration Configuration (technical brief)

Service categories
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Service Categories
Description

Create service categories to facilitate knowledge base searches, process customer requests
and comments, and to provide additional levels of reporting for a department.

Service problem codes
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Service Problem Codes
Description

Create service problem codes to identify requests, concerns, or problems that customers
frequently experience. Associate GIS map layers with service problem codes to filter the
equipment search on the GIS map. You can create a service code based on a standard work
order and the system will populate a service description and priority.

Service requests
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests
Description

Create service requests when tenants call in to request maintenance. Use the search bar to
locate information associated with the caller. If the caller record does not exist, you may

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1936 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

create a new caller record. If a caller record does exist, you may edit the caller's information
and then enter service request details. Next, assign personnel to complete work required for a
particular service request. After you choose to assign personnel, the system generates a work
order for which you may assign one or multiple activities. You may view the work order details
on the Work Order Details page.
To close a service request, the service request to close must be open and associated with an
open work order to which personnel is assigned. Closing a service request also closes the
work order to which it is associated. Additionally, you must have sufficient system privileges to
close both the service request and work order. You may close service requests on the
Closing page of the Service Requests form, or you may book employee time for service
requests and close service requests concurrently on the Book & Close page of the Service
Requests form.
You may also book hours, issue or return parts, enter additional charges, and create a service
request log entry for service requests on the Service Requests form.

Service requests by department report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests by Department
Description

Displays service request information by the departments handling the service request.

Service requests report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests
Description

Displays service request details regardless of status.

Service requests by service category report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Request By Service Category

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1937 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays the service requests associated with a specific service category.

Service requests by service code
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests by Service Code
Description

Displays service requests report by service codes.

Service requests by service code report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests by Service Code
Description

Displays service requests report by service codes.

Service requests by type report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Requests by Type
Description

Displays a bar chart of the service requests by specific type.

Service requests by status report
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Reports > Service Requests By Status
Description

Displays a chart representation of service requests by status.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1938 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Service request overview report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Request Overview
Description

Displays a graph report of the total service requests for a specific organization, including
graph, pie, bar, and area charts of the open service requests, service requests by type,
service requests by status, service requests by service code, service requests by service
category, service requests by department, and service request status summary by type.

Service request portal
Description

Create a new service request on the service request portal.
Access the service request portal to create a new service request to request maintenance on
a piece of equipment or a location. Alternately, update open service requests when a work
order or case is not already associated to the service request. View existing service requests
for updates.
Guest users may request registration on the Create Service Request screen.
To access the service request portal, users must have a valid URL and an assigned
Portal ID.

Service request status summary by type report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Service Request Status Summary by Type
Description

Displays a bar chart graph of summaries of service request statuses by type when the type is
selected on the bar chart.

Sets and consists
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1939 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Equipment > Sets/Consists
Description

Each piece of equipment has a position in that Set, which is the Set Position. A consist is one
or more sets of these equipment, such as a fully functional train. Each piece of equipment has
a position within the Consist, which is the Consist Position.

Databridge setup
Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > Databridge Setup
Description

Databridge is a component of HxGN EAM that enables the application to exchange XML
business document messages with other applications.
If you are running Databridge for HxGN EAM, you need to perform the initial configuration of
Databridge via the Databridge Setup screen. Configure Databridge setup options to format
the module to your specifications.

Short customer invoice
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Short Customer Invoice
Description

Includes short details on customer invoices.
The report does not include details such as charge categories, subcategories, charge
levels, and adjustments.

Start Center
Menu Path

Administration > Start Center Setup
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1940 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

View inbox entries and KPIs on the Start Center page. You can also personalize and refresh
the inbox and KPIs.

Start Center
Menu Path

Administration > Start Center Setup
Description

View inbox entries and KPIs on the Start Center page. You can also personalize and refresh
the inbox and KPIs.

Standard crews
Description

Create a specific crew structure for labor and services when determining costs for CU
estimates.
Define standard crews and associate multiple rates to the crews for selection when creating a
compatible units estimates project. These costs for labor and services as defined by the
standard crews will be applied when determining cost details for CU estimates.
Rate overrides or standard rates associated with trades are used when standard
crew rates are not defined.

Standard work order frequency report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Standard WO Frequency
Description

Displays the frequency of standard work orders.

Status change authorizations
Menu Path

Administration > Security > Status Authorizations

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1941 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Users have different levels of authority within the system. For example, a manager might
have authority to approve purchase requisitions. A planner might have authority to cancel a
work order. A project manager might have authority to freeze a project.
Set up authorization levels for entity status values when records for the entity are created or
when their status is modified. Set authorization levels for user groups or individual users.

Stock to held items transfer
Menu Path

Materials > Held Items Management > Stock to Held Items Transfer
Description

Transfer stock items to held item bins.

System codes
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > System Codes
Description

Entities are the fundamental core of the system. Configuration of entities and their respective
codes determines what functions of the system are available and to which users. An entity is
a table of related data pertaining to specific system functions.
There are three kinds of entities in the system: Status Entities, Type Entities, and Code
Entities. The system identifies entities as Extended Codes, but they are identified to users as
User Codes. When you install HxGN EAM, all HxGN EAM Codes and User Codes are
identical. Tailor the system to an organization by adding new user codes on the System
Codes form.
Classes divide entities into groups that share certain characteristics. For example, you can
subdivide an entity into classes to define a separate list of custom attributes for each class.
Define system codes to tailor the system to the entity. System codes allow you to define your
own business processes, that is create the steps for work order administration. The number of

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1942 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

steps you create may be fewer than the ones created by the system codes at installation. You
can also edit existing user codes.

Top 10 call center requests report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Top 10 Call Center Requests
Description

Displays a pie chart representing the top 10 most commonly occurring service problem codes
requested in the call center.

Top 10 breakdowns report
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Top 10 Breakdowns
Equipment > Positions > Top 10 Breakdowns
Equipment > Systems > Top 10 Breakdowns
Description

Displays a pie chart representing the top ten most commonly occurring work order types
requested for selected equipment. View the report by WO Type, Service Problem Code,
Action Code, Cause Code, Failure Code, or Problem Code.

Databridge message status
Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > Databridge Message Status
Description

Search for outbound transactions, enter search criteria to search for specific transactions,
view transaction details such as key fields and error messages, and to retry messages that
were not processed correctly.

Databridge outbound events

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1943 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > Databridge Outbound Events
Description

Specify search criteria to obtain a list of outbound transactions. View key fields and error
messages for transaction details. Additionally, you can cancel transactions if Databridge does
not process them successfully.

Conditions
Menu Path

Work > Inspections > Conditions
Description

Inspection conditions are restrictions on inspections. The conditions differ with different
equipment. For example, check the brake system of a vehicle only when it is stationary with
the wheels removed. For other equipment, the weather or the temperature might restrict an
inspection.
The system includes, on the work order printout, any conditions that must be met prior to the
inspection.

Findings
Menu Path

Work > Inspections > Findings
Description

Define codes that represent the results of an inspection. All of the codes defined on this form
represent qualitative findings, not quantitative results. For example, a qualitative finding of a
pipe inspection is "The pipe is leaking".
Associate one or more equipment classes with a specific inspection finding. For example,
associate tire tread wear results with vehicle classes (four door sedans, two door sedans,
vans, etc.).
You can also assign equipment classes to a finding on the Class page. The Classes page

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1944 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

displays a list of equipment classes assigned to a particular finding. A finding may have
multiple equipment class assignments, if it is not a general finding, which by default applies to
all equipment classes.
For example, equipment with a class of HVAC may have different findings than equipment
with a class of MOTOR. When you enter inspection results for a piece of equipment with a
class of HVAC, only the general findings and those assigned specifically to the HVAC class
will appear in Finding on any inspection result entry form.

Formulas
Menu Path

Work > Inspections > Formulas
Description

Define generic formulas to establish any calculation that produces a minimum or maximum
critical value for an inspection point aspect combination or any calculation with entered
monitored data, and then identify where the system executes those formulas. First, define the
actual formula, and then define parameters used within the formula. The system calculates
formulas with SQL statements defined for the parameters used in the formula.
After defining formulas, associate parameters used within the formulas.

Inspection route report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Inspections > Inspection Route Report
Description

Displays the inspection sequences, aspects, conditions, and methods to examine during a
specific route inspection. Use this report to register the results of an inspection for later data
entry.

Shutdowns
Menu Path

Work > Projects > Shutdowns

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1945 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Your organization may have equipment that can only be serviced when it is completely out of
service or shut down. Define shutdown codes, and then define equipment to service during
shutdowns. A shutdown can represent either a part of the facility or a type of shutdown to be
performed.
Associate standard work orders and specific equipment with the shutdown identification
codes. For example, create a shutdown identification code for each station within your facility,
and then associate each piece of equipment in the station with that identification code.
Related topics

Meters
Menu Path

Equipment > Setup > Meters
Description

Define a physical meter. A physical meter is a tangible device, such as a car odometer, that
measures a particular usage of a piece of equipment. Physical meters have limits on how
much usage you can track before the meter resets to zero.
Logical meters record the accumulative usage of a piece of equipment throughout its
operational life. In HxGN EAM, the meter due value of a preventive maintenance work order
is always based on a logical meter. Use logical meters to monitor equipment usage. Plan
preventive maintenance in response to logical meter levels. Define logical meters on the
Meters tab of the Assets, Positions, Systems, or Locations screen.

Positions
Menu Path

Equipment > Positions
Description

Pieces of equipment are entities for which you store data and create work orders. Functions
are functions performed by a general kind of asset. Equipment can be of many different types,
but the four main types are locations, systems, positions, and assets.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1946 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Locations - Physical locations of systems, positions, and assets. For example, a pumping
system is located in Room 104.
Systems - Collections of positions or assets that work together so that when one part goes
down, all parts are affected. For example, if a pump stops working, you must turn off the
entire water line to repair it.
Positions - Functions performed by a general kind of asset. For example, the pump that
moves water from one tank to another is a functional position, which can be filled by any
number of actual, physical pumps (assets). Positions are also called functional positions.
Assets - Generally, physical objects. Assets are the base unit of equipment information and
the smallest tracking unit for capital investments.
Locations, systems, positions, and assets form a hierarchy of equipment information, with
locations at the top of the hierarchy and assets at the bottom. Data is shared among the
levels of the equipment hierarchy. For example, data for a work order performed on an asset
is also stored in the position, system, and location equipment to which the asset belongs. This
data sharing allows you to track assets and their performance in detail and under differing
conditions, to evaluate the performance of entire systems, and to assess the effect that
locations and positions have on systems and assets.
Define your organization's positions as equipment. Define parent/child relationships among
equipment to link costs and meter readings. A physical meter is a tangible device, such as a
car odometer, that measures a particular usage of a piece of equipment. Physical meters
have limits on how much usage you can track before the meter resets to zero. Define physical
meters in the Meters form.
Logical meters record the accumulative usage of a piece of equipment throughout its
operational life. The meter due value of a preventive maintenance work order is always based
on a logical meter. Use logical meters to monitor asset usage. Plan preventive maintenance in
response to logical meter levels. Define logical meters on the Meters page of the Assets,
Positions, Systems, or Locations form.
Associate warranty documents with specific pieces of equipment or with other equipment.
Define warranty terms based on equipment usage or by date. When necessary, create
warranty claims, and then enter settlement details for the claim in HxGN EAM. View and
modify the list of PM schedules for equipment (assets, positions, or systems) on the PM
Schedules tab of the respective Equipment form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1947 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Systems
Menu Path

Equipment > Systems
Description

Systems are collections of positions and/or assets that work together so that when one part
goes down, all parts are affected. Pieces of equipment are entities for which you store data
and create work orders. Equipment can be of many different types, but the four main types
are locations, systems, positions, and assets.
Locations - Physical locations of systems, positions, and assets. For example, a pumping
system is located in Room 104.
Systems - Collections of positions or assets that work together so that when one part goes
down, all parts are affected. For example, if a pump stops working, you must turn off the
entire water line to repair it.
Positions - Functions performed by a general kind of asset. For example, the pump that
moves water from one tank to another is a functional position, which can be filled by any
number of actual, physical pumps (assets). Positions are also called functional positions.
Assets - Generally, physical objects. Assets are the base unit of equipment information and
the smallest tracking unit for capital investments.
Locations, systems, positions, and assets form a hierarchy of equipment information, with
locations at the top of the hierarchy and assets at the bottom. Data is shared among the
levels of the equipment hierarchy. For example, data for a work order performed on an asset
is also stored in the position, system, and location equipment to which the asset belongs. This
data sharing allows you to track assets and their performance in detail and under differing
conditions, to evaluate the performance of entire systems, and to assess the effect that
locations and positions have on systems and assets.
Define your organization's systems as equipment. Define parent/child relationships among
equipment to link costs and meter readings. A physical meter is a tangible device, such as a
car odometer, that measures a particular usage of a piece of equipment. Physical meters
have limits on how much usage you can track before the meter resets to zero. Define physical
meters in the Meters form.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1948 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Logical meters record the accumulative usage of a piece of equipment throughout its
operational life. The meter due value of a preventive maintenance work order is always based
on a logical meter. Use logical meters to monitor asset usage. Plan preventive maintenance in
response to logical meter levels. Define logical meters on the Meters page of the Assets,
Positions, Systems, or Locations form.
Associate warranty documents with specific pieces of equipment or with other equipment.
Define warranty terms based on equipment usage or by date. When necessary, create
warranty claims, and then enter settlement details for the claim in HxGN EAM. View and
modify the list of PM schedules for equipment (assets, positions, or systems) on the PM
Schedules tab of the respective Equipment form.

Blanket order list
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Blanket Order List
Description

Print a list of approved blanket orders and blanket order lines. The list includes approved
blanket orders and blanket order lines that includes the blanket order header and blanket
order lines.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Supplier, Blanket Order, For Store, and Class.
Comments - Select to print comments on the report.
Release Information - Select to include release information on the report.
Terms/Clauses - Select to include terms and clauses information on the report.
Custom Fields - Select to print custom fields on the report.
Approvers - Select to print information about the authorized approvers on the report.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1949 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Blanket orders
Menu Path

Purchasing > Blanket Orders
Description

You can generate purchase orders from a blanket order, associate clauses with blanket
orders, and set up user authorization for blanket order releases. When satisfied with the
blanket order, approve the blanket order by changing the status to Approved. You must have
authorization to create or update blanket orders. You must be a buyer for your organization
with sufficient purchasing limit permissions to create blanket orders.

Calibration equipment
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Calibration Equipment
Description

Displays a list of all equipment that requires calibration and has been configured for
calibration. The report includes all equipment that is defined as a loop, instrument, or
standard if any one of these requires calibration. Standards are either parts tracked by asset
or parts tracked by lot. The system only prints part standards that are tracked by asset,
because you do not have to associate a piece of equipment with parts tracked by lot.
The System field in the report output displays all of the systems above the selected
System/Equipment in an equipment hierarchy. If the selected System/Equipment has more
than one parent in a hierarchy, the system displays each parent and separates each code
with a forward slash (/), such as SYS1/SYS2/SYS3.
Additionally, if the equipment tolerance is a percentage rather than an absolute, the system
designates the tolerance as a percentage by printing a percent sign (%) following the devices
to and from tolerance.

Calibration history
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Calibration History

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1950 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays a list of calibration work order results for calibration work orders for which the
completion date falls within the specified start and end date. The results shown for each work
order are related to test points having the greatest deviation from the standard.
The System field in the report output displays all of the systems above the selected
System/Equipment in an equipment hierarchy. If the selected System/Equipment has more
than one parent in a hierarchy, the system displays each parent and separates each code
with a forward slash (/), such as SYS1/SYS2/SYS3.
Additionally, if more than one standard is used for the work order, the system prints each
standard and its due date or lot expiration date on a separate line.

Capital performance evaluation
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Capital Performance Evaluation-Hospitality
Description

Displays the outstanding capital request values for the selected equipment for a selected
period and for a future period and, if applicable, the gas index for the equipment. This report
also displays the correlation between the gas index and the capital request.

Child equipment replacement
Menu Path

Equipment > Process > Child Equipment Replacement
Description

Replacement can be done when using assets that are associated to parts with one installed
and in structure while another asset associated to the same part is in the storeroom waiting to
be used.
This screen can also be used to replace assets when both are installed and not attached to
parts, when dealing with core tracked parts, and when detaching an asset from a parent
without replacing it.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1951 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

C02 emissions
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > CO2 Emissions
Description

A report which displays equipment (in graphical form) in best and worst order based on CO2
emissions for the selected year and compares the data with the previous two years.

Credit cards
Menu Path

Purchasing > Setup > Credit Cards
Description

Define credit cards for use as payment on purchase orders. You can also define users
authorized to charge purchase orders to a specific credit card on the Users tab.

Equipment depreciation
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Depreciation
Description

Displays a report of the total equipment depreciation expense and book value through the
End Date.
Depending on the selection criteria entered, the system includes all equipment records with a
depreciation schedule of the selected Depreciation Type for which an Original Cost is
specified that does not have a Transfer Date.
If a piece of equipment is sold/scrapped, the system determines whether the Sold/Scrapped
Date precedes the report End Date. If so, then the system displays the depreciation expense
for the equipment through the Sold/Scrapped Date and a Book Value of zero.
If you specify a future date as the End Date for the report, the system generates a report of
the actual depreciation expense/book value through the current system date, and the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1952 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

projected depreciation expense/book value through the specified End Date.
If the depreciation method for a piece of equipment is units of output, the system generates a
report of the most recent depreciation expense/book value that is presently available based
on the current system date and units of output entered.

Equipment hierarchies
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Hierarchies
Description

Displays a list of equipment hierarchies.

Equipment history
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment History
Description

Details the date and reason work was performed on a piece of equipment or an equipment
type.

Fault-trend analysis
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Fault Trend Analysis
Description

Displays how often a piece of equipment failed and why.

GAS index analysis
Menu Path

Administration > Reports > GAS Index Analysis
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1953 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays the GAS index and the energy efficiency of equipment over a selected period of time
and reports how much money was spent on each commodity, such as electricity, gas, water,
etc., consumed by that equipment.

Warranty claims report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Warranty Claims
Description

Displays a list of claims filed against an equipment warranty.

WO cost by equipment
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost by Equipment
Description

Includes a list of work order costs per piece of equipment.

WO cost by type, cost code, or dept
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost by Type, Cost Code, or Dept
Description

Includes a list of work order costs by work order type, cost code, or department.

WO cost summary
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost Summary
Description

Displays cost information including itemized and totaled cost information, such as labor,
materials, services, and tool costs, by equipment (and related child equipment) for open and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1954 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

closed work orders.

WO cost of equipment per location
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost of Equipment Per Location
Description

Displays a list of equipment costs per location.

Cost of WOs per equipment
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Cost of WOs Per Equipment
Description

Displays a list of work order costs per piece of equipment.

Table of equipment with custom fields
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Table of Equipment with Custom Fields
Description

Select equipment for which to view details by specifying the Organization, Type, Equipment,
and other optional fields.
Select Include User Defined Fields to show the User Defined Fields section.

Equipment details
Menu Path

Equip > Equipment Details
Description

View equipment information, including assets, positions, systems, and locations, using the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1955 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equipment function. The equipment List View page displays all equipment records within the
organizations for which you have access permission.
You can also create work orders from the equipment form by clicking Create Work
Order.

Equipment transfer log
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Equipment Transfer Log
Description

If the transferred equipment has any child equipment, the system also prints an overview of
the child equipment.

WO cost summary chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > WO Cost Summary Chart
Description

Shows itemized and totaled cost information for items such as labor, materials, services, and
tool costs, by equipment for open and closed work orders.

Clauses of contract classes
Menu Path

Purchasing > Contracts > Clauses of Contract Classes
Description

Modify, add, and delete lists of purchasing clauses for an existing contract class.

Invoice allocations
Menu Path

Purchasing > Invoice Allocations

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1956 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Book invoice allocations to assign costs to work order invoice vouchers and invoice voucher
lines. You can also activate or inactivate invoice lines by selecting the line and clicking
Activate Line or Inactivate Line.

Invoice lines per buyer
Menu Path

Purchasing > Overview > Invoice Lines per Buyer
Description

View invoice line item information per buyer.

Invoice vouchers
Menu Path

Purchasing > Invoice Vouchers
Description

Create credit and debit notes to apply credits to invoices and inventory. Create non-purchase
order invoice vouchers to record invoices for items or services received without associated
purchase orders.
Regular invoice vouchers are used to create a record of a supplier's bill. Creating invoice
vouchers creates a business process by which suppliers are paid for parts and services.
You can also create and edit costs for the invoice voucher header. The Invoice Voucher form
applies costs to specific invoice voucher lines; the Costs page applies costs to the invoice
voucher header.

Quotations
Menu Path

Purchasing > Quotes > Quotations
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1957 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The system automatically creates a quotation record when a quotation is received via an RFQ
and the RFQ header status is changed to Sent to Supplier. Update the record details as long
as the quotation is in the status of Unfinished. Define services information for quotations on
the Services tab and parts information for quotations on the Parts tab.

Requests for quotations
Menu Path

Purchasing > Quotes > Requests for Quotations
Description

Requests for quotations (RFQs) are records of parts and services that are presented to
suppliers to solicit bids on pricing. Define request for quotation information before submitting
requests to suppliers. You can associate parts for RFQs, and define suppliers and services for
RFQs.

Blanket order list
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Blanket Order List
Description

Print a list of approved blanket orders and blanket order lines that includes the blanket order
header and blanket order lines. Use blanket orders to order a fixed number of items for a
predetermined price or over a specific period of time.

Approved POs awaiting delivery
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Approved POs Awaiting Delivery
Description

Displays a list of purchase orders that have been issued to suppliers but for which goods
have not yet been received. The report includes the supplier, the date the purchase order was
created, the related requisition, and purchase order numbers.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1958 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Request for quotation
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Quotes > Request for Quotation
Description

Prints quotations that are sent to suppliers to elicit part and service quotes. Data includes the
quotation header, requested by, parts, services, and comments sections.

Quotation summary
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Quotes > Quotation Summary
Description

This report allows you to easily compare all supplier responses received from quotations.

Request for quotation summary
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Quotes > Request for Quotation Summary
Description

Displays additional awarded information for parts and services that have been awarded to a
supplier.

Consignment activity
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Consignment Activity
Description

View consignment activity by organization, store, and supplier.

Review requisitions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1959 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Materials > Review Requisitions
Description

View a list of requisitions awaiting approval, and then either accept or reject the requisitions.
You must have sufficient status change authorizations to approve and reject requisitions, and
you cannot approve requisitions that exceed your requisition approval limit.

Generate POs
Description

Quickly generate purchase orders based on requisition line items.
HxGN EAM creates new purchase orders from existing approved requisition line items or
adds requisition line items to existing purchase orders.

Commodities
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Commodities
Description

Define commodity codes to establish a method of classifying materials for purchasing and
inventory. Commodity codes can identify specific types of goods, such as fiber optics, fuses,
switches, etc., that can then be used to categorize specific parts in your inventory. Buyers can
then associate particular suppliers with these different commodities and send out requests for
quotes (RFQs) for that particular commodity. Storeroom and maintenance personnel can also
use commodity codes to quickly access stock information.

Non-PO receipts
Menu Path

Materials > Transactions > Non-PO Receipts
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1960 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Create non-purchase order receipts to receive parts into store without a purchase order to
facilitate credit card purchases or any other type of purchase made without using a purchase
order. After creating a non-purchase order receipt, you can update the receipt status as
necessary based on your status change authorization privileges.
Status change authorizations are set up for the TRAN entity on the Status
Authorizations screen. However, the fields available for update are enabled and/or protected
based on the status from which you are updating the receipt.

Currencies
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Currencies
Description

Define currencies as necessary. The system contains many predefined currencies. In
international markets, organizations are required to monitor the various currencies used and
the different exchange rates.

Part hierarchy codes
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Part Hierarchy Codes
Description

Create part hierarchy codes to create a coding structure that enables you to further define
parts by classifying them into specific levels. Before creating part hierarchy codes, you must
first define the code levels for the Part code hierarchy entity (CLVL) on the Classes screen.
See Defining Classes for more information.
After defining the code levels for the Part code hierarchy entity, you can then create part
hierarchy codes to define a structured hierarchy between part code combinations. You can
define a maximum of eight coding levels for parts.

iProcure vendors
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1961 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Materials > Setup > iProcure Vendors
Description

Create iProcure vendors in HxGN EAM and create a new supplier for each iProcure vendor
that currently does not have an associated supplier record. iProcure allows customers to plan
work, track parts usage, manage stock levels, and replenish stock via the Internet. HxGNEAM
customers with iProcure can manage part information in HxGN EAM.
Associate iProcure items with parts on the Suppliers tab of the Parts screen. Add iProcure
part items to requisitions.

Issue/return parts
Menu Path

Materials > Transactions > Issue/Return Parts
Description

You can issue and return parts from stores to multiple equipment work orders, add parts on a
material list to an issue, and add parts on a pick ticket to an issue/return.

SSO configuration
This screen supports Single Sign-On authentication. Both WS-Trust and OIDC configuration
are supported using the parameters populated on this screen. You may choose to configure
both WS-Trust and OIDC using this screen.
The WS-Trust settings populated on this screen will be the default settings to
enable tenant-specific configuration and will override any customer information stored in
YAML files.
Related topics

Configuring Single Sign-On authentication
HxGN EAM SSO Configuration technical brief

Store-to-store issues
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1962 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Materials > Transactions > Store-to-Store Issues
Description

Create store-to-store issues to create electronic records of the issue of stock part transfers
from one store to another, including stores within different organizations. You can create a
store-to-store requisition before creating a store-to-store issue.
The Store-to-Store Issues screen enables you to create and manage transactions to transfer
parts (stock parts, repairable spare parts, and parts tracked by asset) between stores,
including stores within different organizations.
You can create multiple issues for the same store-to-store requisition as necessary.
After creating and approving the store-to-store issue transaction, the issuing store then
physically issues the requested parts to the receiving store, in which the parts must be
received.
The Store-to-Store Receipts screen enables you to create and manage transactions to
receive parts, repairable spare parts, and parts tracked by asset from other stores, including
stores within different organizations. See Creating Store-to-Store Receipts for more
information.

Manufacturer part numbers
Menu Path

Materials > Overview > Manufacturer Part Numbers
Description

View a list of all parts and their manufacturers. Associate parts with manufacturers on the
Parts tab of the Manufacturers screen.

Parts
Menu Path

Materials > Parts
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1963 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Creating and managing parts information for a business has far-reaching effects. Once you
include this information in the database, it is used time and time again by buyers, storeroom
employees, planners, managers, and other individuals throughout the organization.
One of the primary considerations associated with creating and managing parts information is
choosing and establishing your pricing method for parts. The system enables you to set up
and initialize stock using different price types and pricing methods.
Average price reflects a calculated average of part prices throughout the life cycle of the part.
Last price is the last price paid for a part in purchasing. Standard price is a periodically
adjusted fixed price that is usually taken from the supplier's catalog. You can enter the initial
prices; however, The system readjusts these prices as the part begins to record transactions.
Base price is the default price used for purchasing if the part is not listed in the supplier's
catalog. It is also the price used for work orders, stock issues, and direct purchases that
involve the part. Base price is always average price, last price, or standard price depending
on the value set for the price type.
The system also enables you to set up and initialize stock using the Last in first out (LIFO)
and/or First in first out (FIFO) inventory valuation methods. LIFO and FIFO are both timebased price types. FIFO inventory pricing mandates that you consume the materials
purchased first before using the most recently purchased materials. LIFO pricing mandates
that you consume the most recently purchased materials before using the materials that were
purchased first.
Class codes, categories, units of measure, suppliers, and other information must be defined
in the system before adding parts information to the database.

Pick tickets
Menu Path

Materials > Pick Tickets
Description

Create pick tickets to identify a set of parts that are required for a work order activity. Pick
tickets facilitate the acquisition of materials needed for a pending work order activity by
enabling the worker assigned to a work order to create and print a list of parts required for the
work order activity. The worker can then take the ticket to the store and have the parts waiting

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1964 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

for pick-up in a short period of time, which makes a pick ticket different than a material list.
You can also associate multiple pick tickets with a work order activity or piece of equipment.
Import a parts list for a pick ticket to retrieve an existing list of parts defined elsewhere in the
system to the parts list for the pick ticket.

Part inspections
Menu Path

Materials > Transactions > Part Inspections
Description

View the comments associated with the selected inspection method on the PO receipt line.

Physical inventory
Menu Path

Materials > Transactions > Physical Inventory
Description

To perform a physical inventory, first generate a physical inventory counting sheet to create a
snapshot of the data in your online inventory that you will use to compare with the data you
gather during your cycle count. Then, enter physical inventory quantities to update the actual
physical quantities of inventory items found during your cycle count. Finally, refresh existing
physical inventory data to update the expected quantities in the physical inventory data
snapshot as necessary.

Internal repair receipts
Menu Path

Materials > Transactions > Internal Repair Receipts
Description

When repairing a part internally, a part to repair is taken from a store location to the shop to
be repaired. During the repair process, either complete the repairs on a part, or scrap the part
because you cannot repair the part to a usable state. You must receive the parts back into a

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1965 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

store, which does not have to be the same store from which they were originally taken for
repair.
Create an internal receipt header first, and then add part lines to the receipt. Update the
Status of an internal repair receipt to indicate its progress through the receipt process and to
initiate system actions based on receipt statuses.
For parts tracked by asset, the system automatically changes the Status of the
equipment by which the part is tracked to In Store when the part is received, or it changes the
status to Withdrawn if the part is scrapped. If the equipment by which the part is tracked is
part of an equipment hierarchy, the system cascades the status change for the parent
equipment to all the dependent child equipment in the hierarchy.
If RPPRCCAL is set to YES, the system updates part prices in the same manner as it does a
normal receipt. If RPPRCCAL is set to NO, internal repair receipts do not affect part prices.

PO receipts
Menu Path

Materials > Transactions > PO Receipts
Description

Once you create a receipt header, the system allows you to retrieve outstanding PO lines on
the Active Lines screen. If you entered a purchase order on the receipt header, the system
displays all outstanding part lines for the selected purchase order. If you entered a supplier
and store on the receipt header, the system displays all outstanding part lines on all purchase
orders for that supplier.
From the Active Lines page, select which parts to receive and identify bin and/or lot locations
to which to receive them.
When you approve lines on a PO receipt, the system moves the lines from the Active Lines
screen to the Processed Lines screen, changes the status of the receipt from Unfinished to
Approved, and adds the received parts to stock.

Reasons for return
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1966 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Materials > Setup > Reasons for Return
Description

When returning parts to the supplier, the system allows you to select a reason for return.
Predefined reasons for returns enable you to track return trends.

Generate requisitions
Menu Path

Materials > Process > Generate Requisitions
Description

Generate requisitions from low stock levels to automatically create requisitions based on a
stock replenishment method and specified generation options. The system provides three
stock replenishment methods: Min/Max, Reorder Level, and On-Demand. The system also
enables you to generate requisitions for external repairs of core tracked parts.
To generate requisitions from low stock, the system examines current stock levels in stores,
reserved parts, and parts specified on requisitions, purchase orders, and in transit. The
system then generates a default requisition for all parts below the acceptable level to reach
the specified stock level for the parts. The system will either generate a requisition for a
standard order quantity until the specified stock level is reached, or it will simply order the
necessary number of parts depending on the information you have specified for the stock
record

Part requisitions
Menu Path

Materials > Requisitions > Part Requisitions
Description

Create purchase requisitions to request needed parts. After creating the requisition header,
add parts to the requisition. Search for an existing part via one of several criteria. Narrow your
search or select any of the matches found and displayed. If you cannot find the part you need,
create a new part.

Requisitions

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1967 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Materials > Requisitions
Description

You can create a requisition for stock items, direct materials, or services. Stock items are
materials that are kept in store and are tracked for inventory. Direct materials are items that
you requisition specifically for work orders.

Supplier returns
Menu Path

Materials > Transactions > Supplier Returns
Description

Return damaged or incorrect parts to a supplier. Once satisfied with the contents of the return,
change the Status on the Record View tab of the return to Ready for Printing and then
Approved. You must save the record after each change of status to commit the status
change. The system does not update the inventory records until the return has been
approved.

Store-to-store requisitions
Menu Path

Materials > Store-to-Store Requisitions
Description

Create store-to-store requisitions to transfer stock parts from one store to another, including
stores within different organizations. A store-to-store requisition consists of the requisition
header and requisition lines. Create the requisition header first, and then add part lines.
A typical store-to-store requisition goes through a number of status changes during the
lifecycle of the requisition. User status change authorizations are established on the Status
Authorizations form. Refer to the following list for a description of store-to-store requisition
statuses:
Unfinished - The status of the store-to-store requisition at creation. The status of the store-to-

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1968 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

store requisition header must remain Unfinished until lines are added to the requisition.
Request Approval - Lines have been added to the store-to-store requisition, and it is ready
for approval.
Approved - The store-to-store requisition is approved and ready for fulfillment. Upon
approval, all fields on the store-to-store requisition are protected, except Status, and all of the
lines that are not Cancelled or Rejected are set to Approved.
You cannot approve a requisition if any store-to-store issues have been made
against the requisition and the parts are still in-transit (issued but not yet received).
Cancelled - The entire store-to-store requisition is cancelled.
Rejected - The store-to-store requisition is rejected. The system protects all fields on the
requisition, and you must enter a Reject Reason for the requisition.

Stores
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Stores
Description

Stores are specific locations for part storage areas. Set up initial store information before
using the materials management module. Create bins for stores to identify specific locations
where parts can be stored. Bins are useful for locating and issuing parts and for supporting
physical inventory counts of part holdings.

Quick store-to-store transfer
Menu Path

Materials > Transactions > Quick Store-to-Store Transfer
Description

Transfer parts from store to store without requisitioning them. Transfers using the Quick
Store-to-Store Transfer screen never achieve in-transit status.
Since this tracking feature is not used for this type of transfer, store-to-store transfers should

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1969 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

be reserved for very quick material movements. Quantities available both in the sending and
receiving warehouses are adjusted immediately after the system saves the transaction.

Store-to-store receipts
Menu Path

Materials > Transactions > Store-to-Store Receipts
Description

After creating the store-to-store issue transaction, the issuing store then physically issues the
requested parts to the receiving store, in which the parts must be received. The receiving
store then creates a store-to-store receipt transaction to receive the parts from the issuing
store.
The Store-to-Store Receipts screen enables you to create and manage transactions to
receive parts (stock parts, repairable spare parts, and parts tracked by asset) from stores,
including stores within different organizations.
You can create multiple receipts for the same store-to-store requisition as necessary.

Suppliers
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Suppliers
Description

Large maintenance organizations deal with many suppliers. There are suppliers for parts,
equipment, services, rentals, office supplies, and more. The Suppliers screen is the primary
form for setting up a supplier network. Within this screen, establish a list of suppliers, create a
catalog of parts provided by specific suppliers, and list contacts for suppliers.

Supplier part numbers
Menu Path

Materials > Overview > Supplier Part Numbers
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1970 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Lists parts that have been created and associated with suppliers in the Supplier tab of the
Parts screen or the Parts tab of the Suppliers screen.

Tax rates
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Tax Rates
Description

Define tax rates to build the second level of tax coding. Before creating a tax rate, create tax
rate types on the Tax Rate Type screen. Create a tax rate, such as "SC TAX" to represent a
South Carolina state tax, and then associate that tax rate with a tax rate type, such as a sales
or excise tax rate type. The combination of a tax rate type and a tax rate represent the
definition of a tax rate code. You can also indicate whether to include the tax rate code in
stock valuation.

Tax codes
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Tax Codes
Description

Define tax codes to apply to materials and purchases. Tax codes represent the definition of
tax coding structure that consists of a tax rate type, a tax rate code, a value for tax rate code,
a tax code, and a value for the tax code.
Tax code records represent the combination of tax rate codes and tax code information that
establish a structure that will apply all of the applicable taxes to materials and purchases
based on transaction dates and the established tax structure created within a tax code. You
can create any number of tax codes to fit any tax situation. You can also enter multiple rate
codes for each tax code, as necessary.

Tax rate types
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Tax Rate Types

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1971 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Define tax codes to apply to materials and purchases. Tax codes represent the definition of
tax coding structure that consists of a tax rate type, a tax rate code, a value for tax rate code,
a tax code, and a value for the tax code.

Print requisition
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Print Requisition
Description

Select the originator, requisition type, requisition number, status and/or buyer to print a
specific requisition. Otherwise, the report includes all requisitions. Includes option to convert
totals to Euro currency.

WO aging
Menu Path

Work > Reports > WO Aging
Description

Provides counts of work orders, per work order type, that are 1-10, 11-30, 31-60, 61-90, or
over 90 days overdue.

Calculate Economic Order Quantity (EOQ)
Menu Path

Materials > Process > Calculate EOQ
Description

EOQ represents the ideal balance between ordering costs and inventory holding costs for
items being demanded annually at a constant rate. EOQ helps manage inventory by
minimizing order costs and holding costs for each item.

Purchase history per item/supplier

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1972 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Purchase History Per Item/Supplier
Description

Specify the supplier and view all purchase orders, parts, and work orders associated with a
given supplier.

Inventory standard
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Inventory Standard
Description

View inventory items by fields like Store, ABC Class, Condition, Average Unit Cost, and Order
Quantity.

Print pick ticket
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Print Pick Ticket
Description

The system only prints approved pick tickets.

Stock issues history by part
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Stock Issues History by Part
Description

Displays part, stock values grouped by store, part sorted by store, part, and part organization.
Specify the number of months to view the stock history.

Goods received noted
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1973 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Materials > Reports > Goods Received Note
Description

Print a list of goods received.

Parts currently reserved/allocated
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Parts Currently Reserved/Allocated
Description

Sort parts by Part, WO/Activity, or Store.

Goods return note
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Goods Return Note
Description

Displays all the approved return transactions grouped by the supplier and sorted by the order
number.

Return summary
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Return Summary
Description

View return information including purchase order, equipment, part, quantity, work order, and
total cost.

Physical inventory discrepancy
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Physical Inventory Discrepancy

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1974 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays physical inventory parts and quantities grouped by store, part, and part organization.
Optionally, select whether to include items with null quantities on the report or items without
any discrepancies on the report.

Stock value listing by part type
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Stock Value Listing by Part Type
Description

Provides an overview listing all parts in a store and all bin locations for that part. The report is
grouped primarily by store and secondarily by part. The report has two display modes for
listing either stock parts or for repair parts. Quantities and values are calculated for each
location and totaled for each part.

Print physical inventory list
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Physical Inventory List
Description

Optionally, you can choose to print stocktake discrepancies only. Stocktake discrepancies
occur when there are discrepancies between Expected Qty. and Physical Qty. of inventory
items.

Stock transactions
Menu Path

Materials > Reports > Stock Transactions
Description

View all approved inventory transactions for a specified period of time.
Optionally select whether to print consignment or non-consignment transactions.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1975 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Transaction type
Description

Transaction prompts define where and in what order the data collection module populates
information in the system. You can validate incoming data at the field level, as well as at
conditional navigation between prompts
First, determine what data to enter, in what sequence it should be gathered, and how to group
data for processing to Application Programming Interfaces (APIs). Finally, define data
prompts for each barcode transaction type.

Profiles
Menu Path

Equipment > Setup > Profiles
Description

Create equipment profiles to use as equipment templates. After creating a profile, use it to
quickly create equipment records that require the same information as is contained on the
profile. Associate a permit with a profile, so that all equipment that you create with the profile
will be associated with the permit.

Prompt machine
Menu Path

Administration > Data Collection > Prompt Machine
Description

Enter data into the data collection module with the Prompt Machine screen instead of a
barcode scanner, as necessary. Submit one or more transactions of a selected transaction
type.

VMRS activities
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Fleet > VMRS Activities

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1976 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Prints a list displaying activity details for VMRS work orders.
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Equipment, Trade, Department, Work Order Status, Reason for
Repair, Work Accomplished, Technician Part Failure, Manufacturer, System Level,
Assembly Level, and Component Level.
The values available for Assembly Level are based on the system-level code. The values
available for Component Level are based on a combination of the system-level code and the
assembly-level code.
Show MEC Details - Select to display MEC work order details for multiple equipment work
orders.
Activity Start Date and Activity End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to
retrieve data.
Report Type

Consumer

Print customer contract
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Asset Management Services > Print Customer Contract
Description

Prints a contract for a specific customer
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Customer Contract, and Customer.
Pricing Schedules - Select to display pricing schedules on the report.
Arranged WO Types - Select to display arranged work order types.
Custom Tariffs/Part Charges - Select to display custom tariffs and part charges if Custom

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1977 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Trade Rates and Custom Part Charges are selected on the related Pricing Schedule
Record View page.
Related Customer Contracts - Select to display unfinished/approved related customer
contracts on the report.
Fixed Payments - Select to display fixed payments on the report.
Calculated Work Orders - Select to display calculated work orders on report.
Report Type

Consumer

Expired warranties
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Expired Warranties
Description

Displays a list of all warranties that have expired. Specify the Organization, Type,
Equipment, and Location.
Near Threshold - Select to include warranties that are near their threshold.
Date From and Date To - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.

Hours needed for task plans
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Hours Needed for Task Plans
Description

Displays a listing of work order task plans along with their estimated hours
Parameters

Specify the Organization, Department, and Task Plan.
Start Date and End Date - Specify the starting and ending date for which to retrieve data.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1978 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Report Type

Consumer

Revision control history
Menu Path

Work > Revision Control > Revision Control History
Description

On the Revision Control History form, you can view the history of updated revision control
records to verify the approval or rejection of revisions. The records display the designated
approver and date.

Revision control approval
Menu Path

Work > Revision Control > Revision Approval
Description

You can view approvers for the selected revision, and view the list of PM and PM-related
revisions to evaluate the change to the associated entity record in terms of the PM schedule.

Review work requests
Menu Path

Work > Review Work Requests
Description

View a list of work requests awaiting approval, and then either accept or reject the work
requests. You must have sufficient status change authorizations to approve and reject work
requests, and you cannot approve work requests that exceed your work requests approval
limit.

AMS-Pricing schedules
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1979 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Asset Management Services > AMS-Pricing Schedules
Description

Create pricing schedules to define time and material calculations, work orders, custom trade
rates, and part-specific charges to be associated with customers and customer contracts.
Custom trade rates are used to charge labor costs to customers based on rates defined for
specific trades and hour types instead of a standard labor cost percentage entered on the
Pricing Schedule header.
Custom part charges are used to charge material costs to customers based on rates defined
for part classes instead of a standard stock item cost percentage entered on the Pricing
Schedule header.
Additional charges on a pricing schedule are added to every work order that is completed for
a customer contract. The additional charges are not added or displayed on the work order
when the work order is created. Instead, additional charges are added to the work order costs
when the system calculates work order customer charges.
Work order criteria is used identify the work orders for which to charge for pricing schedules.
The system uses the specified work order criteria for a pricing schedule to select the work
orders for which to charge a customer when calculating work order costs.
After the system selects all of the existing work orders matching the work order criteria for a
pricing schedule, it then calculates and compiles all the costs for the work orders, which will
be used later during the assembly of charges for customer invoices. See Understanding the
creation of customer invoices for more information.

Book labor by employee
Menu Path

Work > Process > Book Labor By Employee
Description

Book labor by employee to record the hours required for an employee to perform work orders
and non-WO time.

Batch meter readings

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1980 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Equipment > Process > Batch Meter Readings
Description

Enter meter readings or meter differences. In some cases, the default UOM is a parent meter
attached to one or more Child ("Receiving") meters of the same UOM. In such cases, the new
meter reading must roll down the hierarchy. See Creating equipment hierarchies for more
information.

WO load balancing
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > WO Load Balancing
Description

Balance the workload by adjusting the schedule. The WO Load Balancing form consists of
three pages: the Parameters page, on which you define the selection criteria for locating the
work orders to balance; the Preview page, on which you can preview the work orders before
balancing them and select or deselect the work orders to process as necessary; and the
Balance Load page, on which you can balance the work order load.
The Generate Options section of the Parameters page enables you to specify the manner in
which the system processes the work orders.
You can use the Preview page to preview all of the work orders selected for processing
based on the selection parameters, enabling you to select or deselect work orders to balance.
You can select or deselect individual work orders for processing, or you can select or deselect
all work orders for processing.
The Balance Load page enables you to view labor availability and reschedule work.

Crews
Description

Define and edit crew records, including adding employees to specific crews and assigning
crews to work order activities.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1981 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Depots
Description

Create depots to specify storage areas for fuel.

Deferred maintenance
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > Deferred
Description

Deferred maintenance is a work order activity for a specific piece of equipment that is
performed at a future date. For example, a work order for vehicle maintenance might include
several critical and non-critical activities. To save time, a supervisor might decide to defer one
or more non-critical activities to a later date. Create deferred maintenance from an existing
work order or manually create deferred maintenance on the Deferred Maintenance form.

Property information
Menu Path

Work > Service Request > Property Information
Description

Enter property information that users can access when creating information requests as
customers call in requesting additional information.

Information requests
Menu Path

Work > Service Request > Information Requests
Description

Create information requests whenever customers call in requesting additional information.

Production requests

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1982 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Menu Path

Work > Production Requests
Description

When production requests are approved, the system sends the request to Infor ERP so that a
corresponding production order can be created. After EAM receives the production order the
system updates the request with the production order details.

Permits
Menu Path

Work > Permit to Work > Permit
Description

Define permits to link safety or authorization information to work orders. For example, you
may define a hot work permit regarding welding in a restricted area; a confined space entry
permit when workers must complete the work in an enclosed production space such as a tank
or vessel; or a lockout-tagout permit when the equipment involved must be completely
stabilized or cut off from operational power supplies.

PM forecasting
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > PM Forecasting
Description

Forecast preventive maintenance for equipment beyond creating PM work orders. Define
parameters to gather a group of selected equipment for which to forecast preventive
maintenance. You can use PM forecasting to view the preventive maintenance on equipment
for a selected period of time as much as one year in advance. Adjust the due dates for
preventive maintenance as necessary to balance the resource workload.

• Due dates can only be updated for forecasted PMs. For existing PM work orders, the
due date cannot be changed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1983 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

• Preventive maintenance is not forecasted for equipment used in a PM work package.
• Only frequency-based PMs are supported on the PM Forecasting form. Meter-based
PMs are not supported.
• Only duplicate PMs are supported on the PM Forecasting form. Fixed and variable PMs
are not supported.

PM plans
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > PM Plans
Description

Create and update PM plans to create PM schedules or add equipment to multiple PM
schedules at once. A PM schedule is a predefined set of preventive maintenance details to be
performed on a defined interval for equipment. PM plans enable you to enter and update
groups of PM schedules.

PM schedules
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > PM Schedules
Description

Create preventive maintenance (PM) work orders to generate periodic work orders at the
frequency or meter readings you specify. Preventive maintenance work orders apply to single
pieces of equipment or to systems that include several pieces of equipment.

Work order quick close
Menu Path

Work > WO Quick Close
Description

You can close completed work orders on the Work Order Quick Close form. When you enter
a work order number, the system automatically enters a status of Completed and enters

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1984 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

today's date as the date completed so that you may quickly close the work order. You may
also update any information about the work order and book additional hours for the work
order activities on this form.

Qualifications
Menu Path

Work > Setup > Qualifications
Description

Define qualifications to establish a set of occupational standards or required job-related
training for personnel, tasks, trades, and work order activities. After defining a qualification,
associate the qualification with personnel, tasks, trades, and work order activities to establish
your criteria for qualification enforcement of work activities. Qualification enforcement is
determined by the WOQUAL installation parameter.
If you are using qualification enforcement, you can only assign or schedule an employee who
has the necessary qualification(s) to perform the work for which a qualification is required. If a
qualification is associated with a trade, task, or work order activity, the employee must have
that qualification on their personnel record. Employee qualifications are active if the employee
has completed the necessary training course or requirements for the qualification and the
qualification duration has not expired.
You can also define qualifications as training records to create a historical record of jobrelated training that employees receive that do not require tracking for qualification
enforcement.

Release PMs
Menu Path

Work > Process > Release Individual PM Work Orders
Description

On the Release PMs form, you can release PM work orders awaiting execution in a batch.
Select the work orders to be released by changing the WO Status and updating the
Scheduled Start Date.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1985 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

After the system completes the batch release process, the system retains the records that
have been successfully updated in the Release PMs list enabling you to print the released PM
work orders individually or in a batch.
If you have established a nesting reference between major and minor PMs to bypass a minor
PM that coincides with the release of a major PM, the system bypasses the minor PM as
indicated by the nesting reference.
The system can only bypass a minor PM if it is currently associated with a major PM with a
status of Released.

Routes
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > Routes
Description

Identify these routes and give them a route code. You can also associate inspection routes
with a particular sequence of inspection points. A route is a list of equipment that may be
associated with a work order or preventive maintenance equipment record as an indication of
the scope of work to be performed, such as number of repetitions. Several pieces of
equipment that are serviced together often follow a particular route.

Revision control setup
Menu Path

Work > Revision Control > Revision Control Setup
Description

Designate which PM work order fields, link buttons, and right-click options the system will
protect when PM revision control is enabled for the Work Orders form and all work orderrelated tabs. Right-click options that are not work order specific, such as an Audit Trail, are
not available for revision control setup.
Revision Control must be enabled. Set PMRVCTRL to YES to activate PM Revision Control
capabilities. Otherwise the system will not update any changes made on the screen.
Comments, Documents, and Translations tabs are not revision control enabled.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1986 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Service codes
Menu Path

Operations > Call Center > Service Problem Codes
Description

Create service problem codes to identify requests, concerns, or problems that customers
frequently experience. Associate GIS map layers with service problem codes to filter the
equipment search on the GIS map. You can create a service code based on a standard work
order and the system will populate a service description and priority.

Shifts
Menu Path

Work > Setup > Shifts
Description

Define the shifts used within the organization. You can also define the days for established
shifts and assign employees to a specific shift.

Standard WOs
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > Standard WOs
Description

A standard work order is a predefined set of details and activities that may be referenced on a
work order to facilitate entry of repair jobs that are performed repeatedly over time, but not
according to a definable schedule as is the case with periodic preventive maintenance.
A basic standard work order defines a repair job consisting of one or more activities.
A basic standard work order consists of a header and one or more activity lines. Standard
WO, Description, and Organization frame the header of any standard work order, two
additional required fields, WO Type and Duration, and two optional fields, WO Class and
Priority, house data that transfers to any work order on which the standard work order is
selected. Any activities that are defined for the standard work order are copied to the work

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1987 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

order as a result of selecting a standard work order.
To restrict the list of standard work orders available on a given work order to only those
defined as applicable for the equipment or problem indicated on the work order at the time the
standard work order selection is made, enter Problem Code, Equipment Class, and
Category.
Create standard work orders, and then apply the information from standard work orders to
regular work orders.

Supervisors
Menu Path

Work > Setup > Supervisors
Description

Define codes to represent employee supervisors.

Task plans
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > Task Plans
Description

A task plan is a predefined set of work order activity details that may be referenced on an
activity of a work order, PM schedule, or standard work order to minimize data entry and
ensure consistent planning for jobs.
Define the cost of the task plans for each supplier on the Suppliers page, and then define
prices for common task plans on the Prices page if you are using multi-organization security.
Finally, associate qualifications with task plans to establish the minimum qualifications for an
employee to perform task plans associated with work on the Qualifications page.

Tools
Menu Path

Work > Setup > Tools

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1988 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Tools are pieces of equipment that a department uses to carry out maintenance work, such as
scaffolding or excavators. The department is usually the owner of a tool, so the department's
store keeps the tools.
Tool refers to a type of tool, rather than an individual item. For example, if the organization
has several drills, create a general Tool code called DRILL. Then create individual parts for
each drill and track them as assets using the drills' serial numbers.

Trades
Menu Path

Work > Setup > Trades
Description

The system charges the cost of the trade, based on an hourly rate, back to the appropriate
work order, asset, or project, ensuring correct cost accounting. A single trade may have
multiple rates based on the type of work performed or the department associated with the
trade for a specific work order. Define standard trade rates for suppliers on the Supplier
Rates page. On the Qualifications page, you may associate qualifications with trades to
establish the minimum qualifications for an employee belonging to a trade to perform work for
which the trade is selected.
When scheduling work, you can select to assign the work to an employee or a trade. When
booking hours for the work, the system calculates the labor cost of the hours to book based
on the trade rate defined for either the employee or the trade rate defined for the trade. Define
rates for trades on the Rates page.

Short term WO list (activities)
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Short Term WO List (Activities)
Description

Displays a list of work orders due within the near future, including their activities, starting and
ending dates, and estimated labor hours. Optionally, select Include Multiple Equipment to

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1989 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

include equipment records related to the parent work order

Daily hours worked per employee
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Daily Hours Worked Per Employee
Description

Displays what type of work (normal, overtime, and holiday) a specific employee performed
over a given period and the number of hours.

Short term WO list (WOs)
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Short Term WO List (WOs)
Description

Displays a list of work orders due within a short period of time, such as a week. It does not
project PM work orders.

Material requirements analysis
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Material Requirements Analysis
Description

Displays a list of stock materials needed to complete a specific work order.

WO on-time delivery by employee
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > WO On-Time Delivery by Employee
Description

Displays a summary or detailed report of on-time work order (released and completed)
statistics by employee.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1990 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

WO on-time delivery by trade
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > WO On-Time Delivery by Trade
Description

Displays a summary or detailed report of on-time work order (released and completed)
statistics by trade.

Qualification expiration report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Qualifications > Qualification Expiration Report
Description

Displays a list of qualification expirations and expiration dates for an employee based on the
date range entered. Select to generate the report for a single employee or a group of
employees.

Qualification requirement report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Qualifications > Qualifications Requirement Report
Description

Displays a list of qualifications that are required for an employee to perform a trade or task for
which they are not currently qualified. Select to generate the report for a single trade or task,
or for a group of trades or tasks.

Scheduled activities
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Scheduled Activities
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1991 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Displays information for scheduled activities.

Scheduled vs. actual - detail
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Scheduled - Actual Detail
Description

Displays detailed schedule activities. Depending on how you set up the report criteria, you
can review the schedule date for scheduled work (but not started) on the same day, activities
scheduled and worked on the same day, or work done but not scheduled on the same day.
(You might have multiple lines for some activities.)

Schedule attainment
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Schedule Attainment
Description

Displays a summary of scheduled activities. View the number of activities that were
scheduled and worked on the same date, the number of activities that were scheduled but not
started on the same date, the number of activities that were worked on and not scheduled on
the same date, as well as the percentage of activities scheduled that were worked on the
same date.

Shift employee
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Shift Employee
Description

Displays a list of employees on a shift grouped by department.

Tool usage
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1992 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Reports > Tool Usage
Description

Displays a list of work orders per tool.

Resource load graph
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > PM Forecasting > Forecasting tab
Description

Displays a graph report listing resource data for the selected PM work orders.

Vehicle ticket report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Fleet > Vehicle Ticket Report
Description

Displays ticket information based on the fleet vehicle ticket.

Future maintenance cost
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Future Maintenance Cost
Description

Displays estimated present and future maintenance costs for equipment for a selected period.
Report is divided into four sections.
Current Work Orders - Displays remaining estimated costs of open work orders.
Deferred Activities - Displays estimated costs of deferred maintenance.
Current PM - Displays remaining estimated costs of open PM work orders.
Forecasted PM - Displays estimated costs of PMs that will fall due within the specified date

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1993 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

range.

Print short WO cards
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Print Work Orders > Print Short WO Cards
Description

Displays an abbreviated version of the Print Work Order report, including work order cost.

GL values
Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > View GL Values
Description

View general ledger values. Query for transactions in and view detailed processing
information for transactions.

Flex business rules
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Flex Business Rules
Description

Define Flex SQL statements to define validation rules that are specific to your organization.
You can set up one or more statements to be processed for post-insert or post-update events.
Flex SQL processing supports data query (select) and data manipulation (insert, update,
delete) statements. Use select statements to perform a check condition.
Uppercase and lowercase characters are allowed in the SQL statement. The row identifier
token, however, must be either all uppercase or all lowercase (i.e., :ROWID or :rowid).
Every Flex SQL statement requires the use of a predefined :ROWID token. This token refers
to the data base row identifier for the record being processed in the specified table. The
statement is executed for each record in the table affected by the insert or update operation.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1994 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

The maximum statement length is 4000 characters. No statement termination character (;) is
required.
Data manipulation statements are allowed, but make sure you do not begin an infinite
cascading of trigger steps. For example, generally it is not recommended to create a Flex
SQL statement that updates the base table identified in Table.
Hexagon recommends that you define Flex SQL business rules procedures in close
cooperation with your consultant.

GL references
Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > GL References
Description

Define general ledger reference information for your defined general ledger processes and
view general ledger reference details.
Defining general ledger references

Monitor interface
Menu Path

Administration > Data Collection > Monitor Interface
Description

View scanner transactions to be processed. The number of records available to view
constantly changes as new records are processed through the system interface. You can also
correct scanning errors in the system database. The correct record is reprocessed when
saved.

GL process definition
Menu Path

Administration > Databridge > GL Process Definitions
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1995 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define general ledger processes to export transaction data to an external ERP general ledger
and create journal entries in the corporate accounting system for the processes defined.
Define parameters to enable general ledger process to dynamically construct an SQL select
statement to transfer transaction information from HxGN EAM to an ERP application.

Equipment rankings
Menu Path

Equipment > Equipment Ranking
Description

Create equipment rankings for equipment to determine the criticality or risk a piece of
equipment poses to your operation. Equipment rankings will help formalize the process to
determine this risk based on your answers to the ranking questions you have configured.
Equipment rankings allow you to assign a Ranking Index and Ranking Score to assess
equipment risk. Users must first define criteria by which to assess the risk.
Use the Decision Tree and develop the formula to calculate the Ranking Score, and use the
assigned score ranges to determine which Ranking Index should be applied.
To utilize the equipment ranking functionality, perform these tasks:
1. Create an equipment ranking record.
2. Add levels to the decision tree structure.
3. Add answers to the decision tree.
4. Add formulas to the decision tree.
5. Add normalization values to the decision tree.
6. Order questions for the decision tree.
7. Assign ranking scores to ranking index values.
8. Associate equipment to an equipment ranking.
9. Answer the ranking survey.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1996 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

10. Calculate ranking values.

Safety work order report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Safety Work Order
Description

Displays a list of all work orders where EVT_SAFETY is selected.

Strategies
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Asset Management Policy > Strategies
Description

Strategic initiatives help organizations meet long-term goals. Define your organization's
strategic initiatives as strategies. For example, a strategic initiative can be your organization's
corporate commitment to reducing electrical consumption.
Answer survey questions for the strategy on the Ranking Survey tab.

Temperature analysis chart
Menu Path

Administration > Setup > Regions > Temperature Analysis Chart
Description

Print the temperature analysis chart. Before you can set the parameters to generate the
temperature analysis chart, you must specify the Temperature Minimum and Temperature
Maximum on the Actual Temperatures and Historical Temperatures tabs.

Top 25 service requests - details report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Top 25 Service Requests-Details

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1997 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays the top 25 most occurring service problem codes.

Total annual energy use
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Asset Sustainability > Total Annual Energy Use
Description

Displays the annual energy usage report for one year as specified in the report.

Total service requests report
Menu Path

Operations > Reports > Call Center > Total Service Requests
Description

Displays the total number of service requests.

Units of measure (UOM)
Menu Path

Materials > Setup > Units of Measure
Description

Units of measurements for storing and issuing stock items can depend on the item itself or on
the supplier. Cable, for example, is generally measured in feet. Liquids can be measured by
the bottle, barrel, or gallon. Screws might be measured according to box or pound.
Measurements can vary within your own organization. Perhaps you must order widgets from
a vendor in 24-item cases (the purchase unit of measure). Inventory, on the other hand,
stocks widgets as single items (the inventory or stock-keeping unit of measure).
Define various measurements for different purchasing and inventory items. All system store
transactions are based on inventory units of measure (how the items are actually stored). All
quantities referred to on the bill of materials are also based on inventory units of measure.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1998 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

When purchasing items in units of measure different from that in which you stock them,
convert the unit of measurement. When the inventory unit of measure and the purchase unit
of measure are exactly the same, the conversion factor is 1. If they are not the same, use the
following formula:
purchase UOM x conversion = issue UOM
(1 box of widgets x 10 = 10 widgets)
When the buyer sends out requests for quotes to suppliers, the supplier might provide a price
based on a unit of measure that is different than the purchase unit of measure (which could
be true due to volume discounts, for instance). This is the quotation UOM, and you then need
to supply a conversion factor between the quotation UOM and the purchase UOM when
creating the purchase order or requisition.

Unreturned cores
Menu Path

Work > Overview > Unreturned Cores
Description

View and track core parts issued to a work order, equipment, project-budget or employee that
were never returned to the corresponding store after failing. When core parts remain
outstanding, the value of the core part remains charged against the work order, or to whatever
it was issued. After the core part is returned the core value is removed from the work order.

User defined screens
Menu Path

Administration > Screen Configuration > User Defined Screens
Description

Create and modify user defined screens, and then define fields for these screens.

User group configuration
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

1999 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Administration > Reports > User Group Configuration
Description

Displays a list of users in each user group and the screen or report permissions specified for
the user group.

User groups
Menu Path

Administration > Security > User Groups
Description

Set up user groups so that people who perform similar tasks within the organization have the
same privileges. In the system, you can copy the header and child information from one user
group to another. You can also edit user groups as necessary.
The system is configured with two user groups: R5, containing one user, and R5EMPTY,
containing no users. The R5 user group has full access to all functions, including data setups,
system setups, and system administration setups. R5EMPTY has no permissions. After
installing Infor EAM, change the user password immediately. Only the system administrator
should have access to this user.
After setting up users within a user group, the system administrator cannot delete the group.
Hexagon strongly discourages using the predefined R5 and R5EMPTY user groups as default
user groups because menus and authorizations of these two groups might be replaced during
system upgrades.
After setting up new system user groups, view the users that are associated with user groups
on the User Groups form.
You can also set screen-level permissions for data manipulation. Screen authorization for
user groups is critical to database security and data integrity. Specify the functions to which
user groups have access and specify the permission levels for each function. Specify the web
services to which user groups have access and specify the permission levels for each web
service. Configure which screen flows are available for each user group.
Next, you can set up menus on the menus page of the User Groups form. Creating a menu
structure for user groups is critical to database security and data integrity. In the system, the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2000 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

menu structure is displayed in a tree structure that extends to three levels: the Main Menu
level, Sub-Menu level, and Screen level. The Main Menu level may contain up to seven items.
The Sub-menu level may contain up to thirty items, and the items may be a mix of folders and
screens. Finally, the Screen level may also contain up to thirty items, but the items must be
screens.
Finally, you can set up scanner menus on the scanner menus page of the User Groups form
to associate prompts to a menu structure. In the system, the menu structure is displayed in a
tree structure that extends to three levels: the Main Menu level, Sub-Menu level, and DC
Prompt level.

User IDs
Menu Path

Administration > Security > User Setup
Description

Set up users with access to the system as members of user groups. After setting up new
system users, associate them with specific organizations, and configure the user's access to
other products. When the user logs into the system, the default organization determines to
what user group the user belongs for that system session. Additionally, associate users with
KPIs, inboxes, and responsibilities. Assign roles to users to define their roles in organizations.
Users may belong to more than one organization and have more than one role in an
organization. Modify user records as necessary.

My service requests
Description

View the details of your service requests.
Review the details of open or closed service requests on the My Service Requests page or
on the Service Requests screen.

Vehicle rental history report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Contract Management > Vehicle Rental History

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2001 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

Displays the vehicle rental history.

Vendor lead time report
Menu Path

Purchasing > Reports > Vendor Lead Time
Description

The lead time report displays lead time information from all purchase orders related to the
selected supplier.

Views
Menu Path

Administration > Screen Configuration > Views
Description

Use relational database views to expand the complexity and functionality of user defined grids
in EAM. Define these database views by generating queries using SQL statements. Unlike
user defined grids in EAM, views allow you to use outer joins and unions to combine data
from two or more tables.

VMRS activities chart report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > VMRS Activities Chart
Description

Displays the details of equipment records based on the VMRS codes on activities.

VMRS activities
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Fleet > VMRS Activities

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2002 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Description

View activity details for VMRS work orders, such as equipment, status, activity, and repair
details. Optionally, select Show MEC Details to show details for multiple equipment work
orders.

EMRS codes
Menu Path

Work > Setup > EMRS Codes
Description

The American Trucking Association's Equipment Maintenance Reporting System (EMRS) is a
set of codes used to track equipment and maintenance within the fleet/transportation industry.
EMRS provides a universal language so that the various industry segments (such as
maintenance employees, management, suppliers, and manufacturers) can communicate
more easily and accurately. Values for all Code Keys are installed in the database.
When defining EMRS codes, you must first define a system-level code before you can define
assembly-level or component-level codes.

Warranties
Menu Path

Equipment > Warranty > Warranties
Description

Associate warranty documents with specific pieces of equipment or with other equipment.
Define warranty terms based on equipment usage or by date. Many suppliers provide a
warranty on new equipment for a specific period of time.
One or more warranty coverage records may be established for a piece of equipment for
tracking purposes to ensure that stipulations of the warranty are adhered to both internally
and externally. In general, there are two types of warranty coverage records that can be
tracked for equipment: calendar-based and usage-based. Warranty coverage records can be
associated with an asset, position, or system.
Calendar-based coverage records require a duration value expressed in days. The start and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2003 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

expiration of this type of warranty for a given piece of equipment is expressed in terms of
calendar dates. Usage-based warranty coverage records require a duration value expressed
in some unit of measure other than days. The warranty's unit of measure has to be defined as
a logical meter for the equipment. The start and expiration of this type of warranty for a given
piece of equipment is expressed in terms of usage.
Associate EMRS with warranties to track warranty information for equipment components.

Warranty claim vs. settlement chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Warranty > Warranties > Warranty Claim vs. Settlement Chart
Description

Before you can set the parameters to generate the warranty claim vs. settlement chart, you
must update the system Status of the warranty claim to Response Received. The system
does not display this status as an option until the warranty claim has been given a system
Status of Approved.

Warranty claims
Menu Path

Equipment > Warranty > Warranty Claims
Description

Create warranty claims and then enter settlement details for a warranty claim after the claim
has been settled. Enter monetary values according to the amount of money you are able to
recoup through the claim process.

Web service prompt engine
Menu Path

Administration > Screen Configuration > Web Service Prompts
Description

System administrators can create user-defined screens that utilize the underlying web

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2004 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

services on which the system is architected. The Web Service Prompt Engine displays the
screen representing the prompt definition. The Web Service Prompt Engine also processes
data entered for the prompt transactions through the underlying web services.
Because the Web Service Prompt Engine uses web services, the data is processed directly to
the underlying tables as the transactions are submitted. Therefore, you receive immediate
feedback if the transaction is successful as well as if it contains validation or web service
errors. These errors can then be corrected in real time and re-submitted.
Once a web service prompt has been created, the system administrator must place the
corresponding screen into the user groups menu structure. That process makes the new
screen available through the menu structure, and the new screen appears like all other
screens within the system. The screen name is equivalent to the prompt description. You
need only query permissions for the new screen.
The following apply to screens based on web service prompts:
• They are standalone record view screens with no tabs and no Dataspy filtering features
• Common tabs and pop-ups (Comments, Documents, Addresses, etc.) are not available
• Screen Designer is not available. Screen Designer toolbar button is not available
• The only toolbar options available are Previous Screen, Save, Reset Screen, and Help
• Right-click options are not available
• Dataspy, Export to Excel, Quick Filter, and Save Layout options are not available
• Custom Fields are not supported
• The system does not automatically display the lookup defined on the selected screen for
a chosen field. The system administrator must associate a Query Code or define a
Retrieved Value for each lookup field.

Web service prompts
Menu Path

Administration > Web Service Prompt Engine > Web Service Prompts
Description

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2005 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Define web service prompts representing web services and fields rendered on the userdefined screen using the Web Services Prompt Engine. System administrators can use web
services to create user-defined screens for use. Web service prompts contain the definitions
for these screens.
The following rules apply to forms for which web service prompts are available:
• The system displays the functions of all system-delivered List View and Record View
pages.
• BSCOMM (Comments) is displayed.
• No user-created screens are available.
The system displays all screens meeting the above criteria if a web service has not been
specified; otherwise, only screens related to the web service will be displayed.

Weekly booked hours by department report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Weekly Booked Hours by Department
Description

View weekly booked hours by department for a seven day period. Optionally, select a specific
employee for which to view booked hours.

WO backlog report
Menu Path

Work > Reports > WO Backlog Report
Description

View a list of backlogged work orders. Optionally, select to view equipment warranties
associated with work orders.

WO cost list
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2006 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Reports > WO Cost List
Description

Displays the costs of a work order.

WO daily scheduling
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > WO Daily Scheduling
Description

Schedule daily work orders on the WO Daily Scheduling form.

WO dispatch
Description

Dispatch individual employees or a crew of employees to activities for an open work order at
a specific location on a map.
Dispatch or assign work order activities to the work queue of an employee/crew of employees
geographically closest to the work site for immediate start. This process of placing work into
an employee or crew's work queue is called dispatching.
Employees and crew supervisors manage their queue of work assignments based on work
order priority, criticality, or by other means of prioritization. However, dispatched work order
activities is work intended to start immediately as the dispatcher views a map of the work site,
and then based on a set of qualifications and requirements for the work to be completed,
selects employees available, qualified, and geographically closest to the area of the work site.
When crews with specific qualifications to complete the required work are unavailable,
dispatchers create temporary or permanent crews by selecting individual, qualified
employees, available and in the area at the time of dispatch.
A single work order activity can be dispatched to any number of employees and/or crews.
Although this screen is optimized for GIS map use, GIS is not required to access the
features on this screen.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2007 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

WO quick entry
Menu Path

Work > WO Quick Entry
Description

Create, update, and complete work orders on the WO Quick Entry form.
When you create a work order, a status of Released is automatically specified on the work
order header. Insert and update activities, book labor for existing activities, and issue parts to
an activity. Add or view work order comments and activity comments.

WO scheduling
Menu Path

Work > WO Planning > WO Scheduling
Description

View the current work order schedule, calculate labor availability, and view labor utilization.
Schedule unscheduled or backlogged work orders. Reschedule work orders as necessary.
Additionally, you can view work order comments, change the work order status, and freeze or
unfreeze activity schedules.

WO statistics
Menu Path

Work > Reports > WO Statistics
Description

Displays statistical backlog information including the number of work orders that are:
• backlogged according to Date From
• scheduled to begin within the date range
• backlogged at Start Date but completed within the date range
• scheduled to begin within the date range and completed within the date range.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2008 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

WO updates
Menu Path

Work > Process > WO Update
Description

Quickly update fields on a work order.
Related topics

Updating work orders
Modifying work order details

Work by employee
Menu Path

Work > Reports > Scheduling > Work by Employee
Description

Displays a list of all work orders where booked labor for an employee has been applied.

Work order repair costs chart
Menu Path

Equipment > Assets > Work Order Repair Costs Chart
Equipment > Positions > Work Order Repair Costs Chart
Equipment > Systems > Work Order Repair Costs Chart
Description

Print the work order repair costs chart report.

Work orders
Menu Path

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2009 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Work > Work Orders
Description

Create regular work orders to repair broken equipment, modify equipment to meet safety and
environmental standards, perform work orders during a normal workday, and record
information concerning equipment problems.
First, specify header information on the Record View tab of the screen.
Next, perform the following tasks as necessary:
• add activities to the work order
• schedule labor
• associate qualifications with work order activities
• book labor and vendor hours
• associate parts
• enter meter readings
• create child work orders
• add permits
• request tools
• and associate inspection points
Add additional equipment to work orders for which similar work is done to distribute costs
across the equipment on the work order. You may also view the status of work orders and
view work order information such as work order cost and service request details.
Finally, close the work order after the work is complete.

Work requests
Description

Create work requests for repairs on equipment.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2010 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Review the status of all work requests for repairs on equipment.
After work requests are created, users with appropriate rights can review or approve work
requests.
See the HxGN EAM User Guide for Requestor for more information on requisitions.

Work setup
Menu Path

Administration > Work Setup
Description

Define work setup options to format the module to your specifications.

Workspaces
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Workspaces
Description

Define workspaces or areas where work is completed. Examples of a workspace include an
office, a cubicle, and a meeting room. You can also associate employees and furnishings to
these workspaces.

Workspace moves
Menu Path

Equipment > Additional Features > Workspace Moves
Description

Move equipment, furnishings, and employees from one workspace to another.
For example, move specific employees and their computers from one floor of the office
building to another.
View and select which employees, furnishings, and equipment associated with the workspace

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2011 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

move on the Associations tab.

Workspace moves and associations list report
Menu Path

Equipment > Reports > Workspace Moves and Associations List
Description

Displays a report of all workspace moves and their associations.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2012 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Glossary
ABC analysis
An inventory method that enables you to divide your stock inventory items into three groups
or classes: A, B, and C. ABC class assignments are used as selection criteria for a number of
material management functions, such as EOQ calculations, stock replenishment, repairable
spares, and physical inventory counts.

absolute
Indicates the values entered in Device Tolerance should be processed as absolute values.
The range at which the work order will pass or fail is calculated based on the following
equations:
Lower Work Order Device Tolerance = Standard - Lower Equipment Device Tolerance
Upper Work Order Device Tolerance = Standard + Upper Equipment Device Tolerance
For example, if the Standard is 25, and the Device Tolerance of the equipment is 5-5, the
reading must fall within a range of 20 to 30 for the work order to pass.

accounting code
A specific financial account for an organization's accounting records.

active layer
The layer of a GIS map in which a search originates.

additional charge
Added to pricing schedules in a multi-organization environment. Additional charges are added
to every work order that is completed for a customer contract.

address alias
A name (usually more popular name) for an address or place.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2013 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

adjustment
Corrections made to charges invoiced to a customer. Adjustments can be in the form of an
extra charge for a damaged vehicle or a fee for equipment returned late.

alert tolerance
Indicates a reading that is acceptable, but is closer to the device tolerance limits than desired.
Alert tolerances fall within device tolerance limits and are always calculated as a percentage
value.
The lower and upper alert tolerances are calculated based on the following equations:
Lower Work Order Alert Tolerance = Standard - [(Alert Tolerance / 100) * (Standard - Lower
Equipment Device Tolerance)]
Upper Work Order Alert Tolerance = Standard + [Alert Tolerance / 100) * (Upper Equipment
Device Tolerance - Standard)]

archive
The process in which the system will remove data from the viewable screens and into tables
for keeping.

asset
A sub-category of equipment. An asset is any physical object for which you want to store data
and create work orders, e.g., a pump, a car, an air conditioning unit, etc.

black swan
A black swan is an event with a low probability but a with a very high cost or consequence.

budget
Tools used to track expenses and set spending limits for specified time periods or items.
Budgets coordinate with existing inventory. They also can be defined for predetermined time
frames such as months, quarters, or years.
Important parts of a budget include budget calendar types, groups, terms, and structures.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2014 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

buffer layer
The layer of a GIS map in which equipment for which you are searching resides if your search
involves multiple layers.

building maintenance program (BMP)
One of many policies and procedure templates within Behavioral Health Environment of Care
Manual written for the medical office, hospital, and other healthcare organizations. The
policies cover: Joint Commission (JCAHO or TJC) • CMS • HIPAA • CDC • AAAHC and more.

bulletin board
A database of information posted for the benefit of call center employees that lists companyrelated information, or any information that the call center employee needs to know
immediately.

bulletin board notice
An internal notice in the Call Center module.

calibration
The process of comparing the performance of a piece of equipment to a known standard of
accuracy.

call center
A place where a customer calls, emails, faxes, or walks in, with a request for information. Call
Centers are staffed with employees who are trained to handle the requests that customers
have.

campaign
A list of jobs that may be performed on a given list of equipment as necessary to complete
work.

campaign event

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2015 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

A survey of equipment or job to perform work on equipment.

capEx
Costs incurred to acquire or maintain fixed assets that will have value beyond the current tax
year such as property, land, buildings, and equipment.

change notice
Used when specifying defective equipment from vendors, which the vendors replace without
charge to the customer for a certain period of time. Change notices can be recorded in forms
once they are issued from the vendor.

charge definition
The specification of a type of charge and any adjustments to the charge that will be invoiced
to a customer. The charges are defined on the customer and rental contracts.

checklist
The items listed are used to verify the progress or completion of tasks. The Checklist tab is on
the Task, Work Order, and Permit to Work screens.

clause
A provision added to a customer contract and used on the customer contract definition.

compatible unit
A template to estimate routine, capital work and construction projects. Compatible units are
built with various combinations of labor, parts and materials, tools, and external services.
Compatible units forms the "building blocks" of the compatible units estimation process.

compatible unit accounting code
Codes used to categorize financial transactions associated with compatible units for reporting
of financial information.

condition

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2016 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Indicates in what shape a piece of equipment is at this moment. Related to equipment
ranking.

confined space
Area determined as a confined space by OSHA regulations.

consequence
A component of the risk matrix setup and consequence categories. A consequence measures
the impact and severity of equipment or location failure. Examples include: No Incident,
Incident with Absence, and Injuries. For the Environment consequence category, example
consequences include: No Effect, Minor Spill, and Major Pollution.

consequence category
A component of the risk matrix setup. Categories allow you to separate consequences into
groups based on the level of impact the equipment failure will cause. Examples include:
Safety, Environment, Economic Loss, Company Image, and Profitability.

contract
Purchasing contracts are tools used to detail agreements for parts. Details include such
information as suppliers, time-frames, and buyer facts as well as percentage discounts
arranged for each contract according to order or duration.

contract item
A piece of equipment, project, or work order. The Contract Items screen specifies the
equipment, project, or, work order included on the customer contract. Also provided are
details of the item including the organization that will invoice, contract template,
recommended exchange rate, and associated customer.

contribution %
Any monetary "credit" in percentage value contributed towards the total cost of a compatible
units estimate. Contribution amounts can be entered as a currency amount or as a
percentage value.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2017 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

contribution total
Any monetary "credit" amounts to contributed towards the total cost of a compatible units
estimate. Contribution amounts can be entered as a currency amount or as a percentage
value.

cooling degree day
Cooling degree days measure the demand for energy needed to cool a building in a defined
region. When temperatures rise above a defined temperature for that region, buildings
typically require cooling. A cooling degree day is represented by the number of degrees that
the average temperature rises above the defined temperature.
For example, if the average temperature for a day in a region is defined as 85° F and the
degree days reference point temperature for that region is 65° F, the cooling degree (day)
value for that day is 20. Maintaining this temperature data for regions, helps us understand
the relationship between degree days, energy consumption, and the resulting carbon
emissions.
See heating degree day day and degree day reference point.

core part
A part you plan to repair on internal repair work orders, or send to a supplier to repair on
external repair requisitions. Often referred to as repairable core parts.

CU design project
Refers to the designation of a project to be used for the compatible units estimation/costing
process. May be associated with any number of design versions or CU estimates which
represent different ways of achieving the same outcome for a design project.

CU estimate
A combination of compatible unit library records detailing the components of the work to be
performed for a capital, construction or design project. The work components include any
combination of labor, parts and materials, tools, and external services that contribute to the
work, and will be used to generate a total estimate of the work to be performed.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2018 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

CU standard rate
Compatible units standard rate will be considered when costs are calculated or determined for
a CU estimate. This value could vary from other hourly rates specified for a resource (trade or
standard crew).

customer charge
The costs calculated for all work performed for a customer contract. Customer charges
include the costs of all labor, parts, fixed charges, and all information specified on a pricing
schedule.

customer contract
An agreement with a customer detailing charge definitions, contract clauses, comments, and
invoice data. The contract also lists a definition of the charges included and excluded, and
applicable adjustments. Charges that can be invoiced are work order charges, sale of
services, fuel charges, energy charges, and periodic or usage based lease or rental charges.
A customer contract can involve a combination of multiple equipment, projects, and work
orders.

customer contract - work
An electronic document/record created for commercial service (or asset management
services) customers to specify how time, material, and labor costs are charged to a customer
for maintenance work. A customer contract can include fixed charge schedules and pricing
schedules for custom trade rates, part charges, additional charges, and the criteria by which
the system will identify work orders for which to accumulate and bill charges when generating
customer charges and invoices.

customer invoice
Generated/created to compile and assemble accounts receivable invoices for asset
management service customers, work order charges, and fixed payments.

customer rental
A contract created when a customer rents equipment. The rental price is listed on the contract
and is based on usage or a one-time charge. Customer invoices can be generated from

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2019 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Customer Rental records. Only one piece of rental equipment can be listed on the contract.

customer request
Any need that the customer has and contacts the Call Center for help/results. There are three
types of customer requests:
1. Action Request (work order)
2. Information Request
3. Commenting on a service or new product/program

dataspy
A predefined view of a list of records or set of data.

decay curve
Records the anticipated condition score of an asset over a period of time or usage.

decision tree
Created for an equipment ranking to calculate a ranking score. A decision tree is comprised of
four levels which include a ranking level and up to three sub-levels, answers, formulas, and
normalization values.

default set
The default set of calibration test points that apply to calibration work orders/PM work orders.

degree day
Degree days help measure the heating and cooling requirements for buildings in specified
regions. Cooling degree days and heating degree days are based on the daily average
temperatures versus a degree day reference temperature for the region. Degree days are
used to track energy usage to analyze temperature for specific days.
See also cooling degree day, heating degree day, and degree day reference point.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2020 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

degree day reference point
A degree day reference point represents the outside temperature at which no heating or
cooling of a building is typically required for a (geographical) region. The standard value is 65°
F (18.3° C). By establishing the degree day reference point, degree days can be further
categorized as cooling or heating degree days.
See cooling degree day and heating degree day.

depreciation
The reduction of the value of an asset as the result of wear and tear, age, or obsolescence.

design corrosion rate
The rate of corrosion is the speed at which any given material deteriorates in a specific
environment.

deviation
The difference between the Device Reading and the Standard.

device tolerance
The allowable deviation from the standard for the device being used to perform the calibration
measurement. A specified device tolerance indicates the range of variation permitted in
maintaining adherence to the standard for the device.

equipment
Entities for which you store data and create work orders. "Equipment" is a generic, allencompassing term for assets, positions, systems, and locations, which form a hierarchy of
equipment information:
1. Locations
2. Systems
3. Positions
For example, a motor, a line in a factory, a street, etc.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2021 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

equipment ranking
A set of criteria defined for users to assess equipment criticality or risk to overall production. It
determines how a piece of equipment ranks or scores compared to another piece of
equipment. There are several different types of equipment ranking: reliability, condition, risk,
and criticality.

failure mode
The reason an asset fails to perform one or all of its primary functions, for example, if a fuel
pump is leaking it cannot supply adequate amounts of fuel from the gas tank to the engine of
the vehicle. Leaking would be one functional failure of the fuel pump. Other examples of
failure modes are clogged filters, electrical issues, and broken motor.
See functional failure.

fields to remember
This tab refers to the fields and their values that the system will remember and display as the
user moves from screen to screen.

fixed charge
Can be added to customer contracts to create a set price to be added to a customer invoice
based upon a specified due date.

FMECA
FMECA (Failure Mode Effects and Criticality Analysis) is an analysis applied to equipment in
order to determine the probability of failures and the consequences of those failures.

fraction slider dimensions
Determines whether the fraction slider displays imperial fractions that are 1/16th or 1/32nd of
an inch if the Metric Fraction Slider check box is cleared.

fugitive gas
The unintended or irregular gas leakage from an equipment or component.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2022 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

functional failure
A failure or inability of an equipment to perform one or all of its primary functions, for example,
if a fuel pump cannot pump at maximum capacity this is a failure of one of its functions. If it
cannot distribute fuel under low pressure to the fuel injection system and carburetor, this is
another failure of the fuel pump to perform its function.
For this feature, to define functional failures of an asset, you must first define it's functions.
See also failure mode.

general ledger
A record of a company's accounts and associated transactions and balances. The term
general ledger refers to the internal financial record-keeping system for a company's financial
information.

GIS
An acronym for Geographical Information Systems.

hazard
A biological, chemical, physical, mechanical, environmental agent or situation that threatens
life, health, property, or the environment. In EAM hazards typically refer to workplace hazards
or potential hazards employees may encounter based on their workplace operations such as
falling when working at heights, drowning when welding under water, or electrocution when
working with high voltage equipment.

heating degree day
Heating degree days measure the demand for energy needed to heat a building in a defined
region. When temperatures fall below a defined temperature for that region, buildings typically
require heating. A heating degree day is represented by the number of degrees that the
average temperature falls below the defined temperature.
For example, if the average temperature for a day in a region is defined as 30° F and the
degree days reference point temperature for that region is 65° F, the heating degree (day)
value for that day is 35. Maintaining this temperature data for regions, helps us understand
the relationship between degree days, energy consumption, and the resulting carbon

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2023 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

emissions.
See cooling degree day and degree day reference point.

HIPAA confidentiality
A federal regulation protecting patient health information and the equipment that safeguard
this confidential information.

incident request
A record created when a hotel guest or employee contacts the front desk to report a problem
or to get information. Work orders can then be generated from these requests when it is
necessary to take action.

increment
The increment specifies the numeric interval of which a device reading must be evenly
divisible. For example, if you specify an Increment of 5, you must enter a Device Reading
that is evenly divisible by 5, such as 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, etc.

install GL
A general ledger accounting code associated with the installation of an asset. It is used to
organize transactions when financial statements are prepared.

instrument type
A series of one or more instruments requiring and/or used for calibration that are linked
together.
Standard applied to: An instrument to which a standard is applied during calibration.
Accessory: An instrument that is secondary or subordinate within a loop.
Reading taken from: An instrument from which a reading is taken during calibration.

integer slider
Part of the mobile user interface to enter numbers on a checklist using sliders. It displays the

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2024 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

number range without decimals.

isolation block
The minimum area of a distribution network surrounding a pipe that can be isolated by closing
a set of valves.

isolation dependent block
An isolation block that is connected to the distribution network only through another isolation
block. That is, a dependent block is downstream from another isolation block that acts as the
supply source for the dependent block.

isolation main
A type of pipe that moves water through a distribution network; usually in a unidirectional
manner (starting from a source).

isolation point
Indicates at which areas the equipment can be isolated from its energy sources to prevent
injury from unexpected startup. Equipment should be isolated from its energy sources during
the lockout/tagout procedure of the permit to work process. Examples of isolation points are
circuit breaker, valve, or equipment switch.

kit
A collection created from a stock of parts within a store. When a kit is built, component parts
are removed from inventory and the kit itself is added to inventory. Kits are individually
identified by a unique Lot number.

knowledge base
A database of information from which call center employees can search for needed
information, to solve a customer's problem or request. Within a knowledge base there are
articles, links to websites that offer more information, and directions for call center employees
to follow.

lockout/tagout

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2025 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

OSHA regulations on lockout/tagout procedures for equipment, which require that machines
are properly shut down and that they are not restarted until service or maintenance on the
machine is completed. Tagging and locking out (e.g., securing that mechanical equipment is
disconnected from to electricity) while employees are performing required maintenance and
work orders, prevents bodily injury and death by employees who might otherwise startup
equipment while maintenance is being performed.

lockout box
A physical location for employees to safely store all the keys used for a lockout/tagout
procedure during which mechanical equipment is disconnected from electricity. The keys are
safely stored and locked to prevent unexpected startup of the equipment while employees are
performing maintenance. The unexpected startup of equipment while maintenance is
performed could cause bodily injury or death to employees performing the work. The keys are
safely stored and locked during this time to prevent such injuries or fatalities.

loop
A series of one or more instruments requiring and/or used for calibration that are linked
together.

maintenance pattern
A schedule of predefined jobs used to perform a preventive maintenance cycle. A
maintenance pattern tells how the system should generate work orders for the maintenance
pattern, and whether the resulting PM work order generation is based primarily on a time
interval (weekly, monthly, annually), or on a meter interval (ex. 3000 miles) or both.

Markov chain
A Markov chain is a stochastic model used to determine the likelihood that the equipment will
be in a certain state or health after it has reached a certain state or health in a previous
iteration of the chain. The changes to the state of the equipment are called transitions and the
probabilities that the equipment moves from one state to another are called transition
probabilities. The initial state of the equipment is assumed to be perfect health.

maximum slider value
The ending or highest value of the integer slider.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2026 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

metric fraction slider
A check box that, when selected, determines whether the fraction slider displays with 10
decimals in the metric system. Otherwise, it displays with imperial numbers.

minimum slider value
The starting or lowest value of the integer slider.

min/max validation
This check box allows users to enter only values that fall within the specified minimum and
maximum slider values.

MTBF
Mean time between failure (MTBF) is the predicted elapsed time between inherent failures of
a equipment during normal operation. MTBF is used to determine asset reliability, or how
often the asset fails.

MTTR
Mean time to repair (MTTR) is the predicted time to repair equipment that is out of order.
MTTR is used to determine an asset maintainability, or how easy it is to maintain the asset
after it fails.

nonconformity
A defect or deviant condition that affects an asset. Examples of nonconformities include
decay, corrosion, cracks, and leaks.

normalization value
Acceptable value ranges for levels in the decision tree for which to determine equipment
reliability rankings.

O & M GL
objective

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2027 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

A specific result that your organization plans to achieve. Objectives specify the expected
results and expected result dates. For example, an objective can be to reduce electrical
consumption by 10% in fiscal year 2014 at Greenville, SC plant.

OEM site/system ID
A site and/or system identification for service companies and original equipment manufacturer
of an asset.

output
The reading or measurement produced by the calibration measurement at a calibration point.
The output can also be the expected reading if the output unit of measure is different from the
input unit of measure.

output range
The allowable deviation from the standard for the output that indicates the range of variation
permitted to adhere to the standard for the test point.

percentage
Indicates the system processes the values entered in Device Tolerance as percentages.
The range at which the work order will pass or fail is calculated based on the following
equations:
Lower Work Order Device Tolerance = Standard - [Standard * Lower Equipment Device
Tolerance / 100]
Upper Work Order Device Tolerance = Standard + [Standards * Upper Equipment Device
Tolerance / 100]
For example, if the Standard is 25, and the Device Tolerance of the equipment is 5-5, the
reading must fall within a range of 23.75 to 26.25 for the work order to pass.

permit to work
Details the hazards and precautions required to remove or prevent a potential hazard to your

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2028 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

employee's safety.

piping class
Piping class defines the type of material used in the construction of a pipeline. A piping class
defines the material standard being used. Using the piping class reference table, the schedule
and the wall thickness can be derived for a given nominal diameter for a pipeline.

policy
Guidelines created by your organization to record a corporate or enterprise-wide initiative. For
example, this enterprise is committed to reducing energy consumption and thereby reducing
its carbon footprint.

power factor %
The ratio of the real power used to perform work and the apparent power supplied to the
circuit.

precaution
A measurement your operation or employees can take to prevent workplace hazards which
have the potential to cause bodily injury and even death. Examples of precautions include
wearing a safety harness to prevent falling when working at heights, wearing proper
equipment to prevent drowning, or switching off electricity to prevent electrocution.

precision
Indicates the maximum number of decimals allowed to the right of the decimal point for a
reading.
You can enter a number with fewer than the maximum number of decimals allowed
to the right of the decimal point. The system assumes there are zeros at the end of the
specified number.
The precision indicates the degree of refinement with which the calibration is performed or the
calibration measurement is stated.

probability

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2029 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

A component of the risk matrix setup. Probability measures the likelihood or expectation of
when an equipment or location failure will occur. Examples include: Less than a year, 1 to 5
years, 10 to 20 years, and More than 20 years.

process range
The reading or measurement produced by the calibration measurement process at a
calibration point.

process tolerance
The allowable deviation from the standard for the process that indicates the range of variation
permitted to adhere to the standard for the test point.

QR code
QR code is an abbreviation of Quick Response Code. It resembles black squares arranged in
a square grid on a white background. The image is read by an imaging device such as a
camera, and links users to a specific URL.

ranking index
An index of a range of assigned values the system uses when a ranking score has been
calculated for equipment using the decision tree formulas.

ranking score
The calculated score by which the system determines equipment criticality and reliability.

ranking survey
A survey for selected equipment to calculate the Ranking Score and the Ranking Index.
The system calculates the Ranking Score using the formula of the ranking levels and the
answers entered on the ranking survey.

RCM
Reliability Centered Maintenance (RCM) is the ability to define either a risk assessment or a
risk analysis for a location, a system, a position, or an asset. A risk assessment is defined by

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2030 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

the functions of equipment, the functional failures, and the consequences of those failures. A
risk analysis is similar to a risk assessment but includes the definitions of failure modes, and
is a more detailed research analysis of the equipment's risks.

regulatory account
A single, specific financial account used for an organization's accouting records as defined by
the accounting structure of the organization, or an external regulatory agency such as a
federal agency.

reliability ranking
A type of equipment ranking. Reliability refers to the ability of an asset to perform its intended
function. Reliability ranking is a set of criteria used to determine how critical a piece of
equipment is to a job while also analyzing that equipment's reliability to perform as intended.
Other types of equipment ranking include condition, risk, and criticality.

remove GL
A general ledger accounting code associated with the removal of an asset. It is used to
organize transactions when financial statements are prepared.

replicable CU design project
A type of project used for compatible units estimation. It is intended for use as a project
template, not for the purposes of reconciling completed project costs.

right of way
A right of way consists of one or more routes. Examples of right of ways include the Eastern
Parkway Line (NY City Subway) and Interstate 40.

risk analysis
A feature of reliability centered maintenance (RCM). A risk analysis examines the higher level
risks associated with equipment failures, that are often discovered while performing a risk
assessment. The risks analysis process evaluates the intended functions of the equipment,
potential equipment failures, the consequences of those equipment failures, and definitions of
failure modes. It is usually performed on lower positioned equipment in the equipment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2031 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

hierarchy.

risk assessment
A feature of reliability centered maintenance (RCM). A risk assessment gauges the risks
associated with equipment failures including the functions of the equipment, the failures, and
the consequences of those equipment failures. A risk assessment is usually performed on
locations and equipment positioned higher in the equipment hierarchy, such as storage
location or a production line.

risk level
A component of the risk matrix setup. A risk level refers to a value assigned to equipment or a
location in the event the equipment fails to perform its intended function. The risk level value
is assigned after a risk assessment or risk analysis is completed. Examples of equipment
failure risk levels include: Desirable, Undesirable, Acceptable, Unacceptable, and
Catastrophic.

risk matrix
A risk matrix helps organizations identify risks with equipment failures, and helps prioritize
those risks as levels by estimating the probability of occurrence and the severity of impact if
the failures occur. It is a visual representation defined by (equipment failure) consequence
categories, consequences, probabilities, and risk levels for the equipment.
It is a component of the reliability centered maintenance (RCM) process which enables users
to view the risk assessment and risk analysis for equipment in a hierarchy.
See probability, risk analysis, consequence category, and consequence.

route
A route belongs to a right of way and may itself consist of one or more linear segments.
Examples are track 1 and 2 of the train line and the east and west bound lanes of a highway.

salvage GL
segment

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2032 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Segments are pieces of equipment that are part of routes. Segments are usually linear
themselves, but can also be point assets, for example in cases where a switch is not defined
with a length.

sequence
The chronological order of work to be completed on a maintenance pattern based on either a
time or meter-based interval for releasing work orders.
In calibrations it indicates the order in which test points should be calibrated.

set
A number assigned to identify a group of test points.

sets and consists
A set is a group of equipment that are physically attached to each other for a functional
reason, such as train cars. A consist is made up of one or more sets. An example of a consist
is a full train that is made up of various sets of grouped train cars.

span
A span work point. Refers to the work that occurs over a linear length/distance (span) for a
compatible units estimate. An example: digging a trench for underground pipes.

span length
Related to span work point. The length between the work point and the from work point. Span
length is measured in feet, kilometers, miles, or meters.

standard
The ideal reading for a piece of equipment against which actual readings should be
measured. Standard also refers to the parts used to perform a calibration.

standard sheet
Commonly called a specification or spec sheet in the construction/utility industries. A
document describing the rules, conditions and/or widely accepted plans/blueprints/drawings

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2033 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

for how various work should be completed.

statement of conditions
A statement of conditions on healthcare equipment as required by The Joint Commission to
document that a fire safe environment of care and compliance is maintained.

strategy
Utilized to record a corporate or organizational strategic initiative such as the corporate
commitment to reduce electrical consumption by an amount and a date. The strategy does
not specify how this will be accomplished. For example, a strategy can be to reduce electrical
consumption by 35% before fiscal year 2014. To accomplish the strategic initiative, the
following can be done:
• Average 35% reduction across the enterprise.
• Minimum reduction of 25% per facility.

target
The focus of an objective or initiative.

test point
The actual point (calibration point) at which the accuracy of the equipment is tested to the
known standard. A piece of equipment that requires calibration may consist of numerous test
points.

test point range
The numeric values indicating the acceptable range for the test point. The values identify the
upper and lower limits of the standard for the test point. The test point reading must fall within
this range for the test point to pass.

trace
The act of selecting multiple pieces of equipment along a linear right of way, route, or
segment to include on multiple equipment work orders. The equipment available for selection
is based on the defined relationships between linear right of ways, routes and segments, and

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2034 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

any defined branch points for crossing over to these equipment records. The action of
selecting this equipment is called tracing.

UMDNS code
A code which identifies a healthcare asset in the Universal Medical Device Nomenclature
System™ (UMDNS) which is a standard international nomenclature and computer coding
system for medical devices.

vintage year
In accounting, vintage refers to the age of a capitalized asset as it relates to the year it was
created.

work point
A location at which work will be performed for a compatible units estimate and design project.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2035 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Support, Copyright, and Legal Information
Copyright Notice
Copyright
Copyright © 2023-2024 Intergraph Corporation and/or its subsidiaries and affiliates. All rights
reserved.
This computer program, including software, icons, graphic symbols, documentation, file
formats, and audio-visual displays; may be used only as pursuant to applicable software
license agreement; contains confidential and proprietary information of Intergraph Corporation
or a Hexagon Group Company and/or third parties which is protected by patent, trademark,
copyright law, trade secret law, and international treaty, and may not be provided or otherwise
made available without proper authorization from Hexagon AB and/or its subsidiaries and
affiliates.
U.S. Government Restricted Rights Legend
Use, duplication, or disclosure by the government is subject to restrictions as set forth below.
For civilian agencies: This was developed at private expense and is "restricted computer
software" submitted with restricted rights in accordance with subparagraphs (a) through (d) of
the Commercial Computer Software - Restricted Rights clause at 52.227-19 of the Federal
Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") and its successors, and is unpublished and all rights are
reserved under the copyright laws of the United States. For units of the Department of
Defense ("DoD"): This is "commercial computer software" as defined at DFARS 252.227-7014
and the rights of the Government are as specified at DFARS 227.7202-3.
Unpublished - rights reserved under the copyright laws of the United States.
Intergraph Corporation, Hexagon's Asset Lifecycle Intelligence Division
305 Intergraph Way
Madison, AL 35758
Documentation
Documentation shall mean, whether in electronic or printed form, User's Guides, Installation
Guides, Reference Guides, Administrator's Guides, Customization Guides, Programmer's
Guides, Configuration Guides and Help Guides delivered with a particular software product.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2036 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Other Documentation
Other Documentation shall mean, whether in electronic or printed form and delivered with
software or on Smart Community, SharePoint, box.net, or the Hexagon documentation web
site, any documentation related to work processes, workflows, and best practices that is
provided by Hexagon as guidance for using a software product.
Terms of Use
a. Use of a software product and Documentation is subject to the Software License
Agreement ("SLA") delivered with the software product unless the Licensee has a valid
signed license for this software product with Intergraph Corporation, Hexagon’s Asset
Lifecycle Intelligence Division ("Hexagon"), a Hexagon Group Company. If the Licensee
has a valid signed license for this software product with Hexagon, the valid signed
license shall take precedence and govern the use of this software product and
Documentation. Subject to the terms contained within the applicable license agreement,
Hexagon gives Licensee permission to print a reasonable number of copies of the
Documentation as defined in the applicable license agreement and delivered with the
software product for Licensee's internal, non-commercial use. The Documentation may
not be printed for resale or redistribution.
b. For use of Documentation or Other Documentation where end user does not receive a
SLA or does not have a valid license agreement with Hexagon, Hexagon grants the
Licensee a non-exclusive license to use the Documentation or Other Documentation for
Licensee’s internal non-commercial use. Hexagon gives Licensee permission to print a
reasonable number of copies of Other Documentation for Licensee’s internal, noncommercial use. The Other Documentation may not be printed for resale or
redistribution. This license contained in this subsection b) may be terminated at any time
and for any reason by Hexagon by giving written notice to Licensee.
Disclaimer of Warranties
Except for any express warranties as may be stated in the SLA or separate license or
separate terms and conditions, Hexagon disclaims any and all express or implied warranties
including, but not limited to the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose and nothing stated in, or implied by, this document or its contents shall be
considered or deemed a modification or amendment of such disclaimer. Hexagon believes the
information in this publication is accurate as of its publication date.
The information and the software discussed in this document are subject to change without

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2037 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

notice and are subject to applicable technical product descriptions. Hexagon is not
responsible for any error that may appear in this document.
The software, Documentation and Other Documentation discussed in this document are
furnished under a license and may be used or copied only in accordance with the terms of
this license. THE USER OF THE SOFTWARE IS EXPECTED TO MAKE THE FINAL
EVALUATION AS TO THE USEFULNESS OF THE SOFTWARE IN HIS OWN
ENVIRONMENT.
Hexagon is not responsible for the accuracy of delivered data including, but not limited to,
catalog, reference and symbol data. Users should verify for themselves that the data is
accurate and suitable for their project work.
Limitation of Damages
IN NO EVENT WILL HEXAGON BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
CONSEQUENTIAL INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, LOSS OF USE OR PRODUCTION, LOSS OF REVENUE OR PROFIT,
LOSS OF DATA, OR CLAIMS OF THIRD PARTIES, EVEN IF HEXAGON HAS BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL HEXAGON'S LIABILITY EXCEED THE AMOUNT
THAT HEXAGON HAS BEEN PAID BY LICENSEE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT AT THE
TIME THE CLAIM IS MADE. EXCEPT WHERE PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW, NO
CLAIM, REGARDLESS OF FORM, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS DOCUMENT MAY BE BROUGHT BY LICENSEE MORE THAN
TWO (2) YEARS AFTER THE EVENT GIVING RISE TO THE CAUSE OF ACTION HAS
OCCURRED.
IF UNDER THE LAW RULED APPLICABLE ANY PART OF THIS SECTION IS INVALID,
THEN HEXAGON LIMITS ITS LIABILITY TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT ALLOWED BY SAID
LAW.
Export Controls
To the extent prohibited by United States or other applicable laws, Intergraph Corporation,
Hexagon's Lifecycle Intelligence division ("Hexagon"), and a Hexagon Group Company's
commercial-off-the-shelf software products, customized software, Technical Data, and/or
third-party software, or any derivatives thereof, obtained from Hexagon, its subsidiaries, or
distributors must not be exported or re-exported, directly or indirectly (including via remote

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2038 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

access) under the following circumstances:
a. To Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria, or the Crimean, "Donetsk People's Republic",
"Luhansk People's Republic," or Sevastopol regions of Ukraine, or any national of these
countries or territories.
b. To any person or entity listed on any United States government denial list, including, but
not limited to, the United States Department of Commerce Denied Persons, Entities,
and Unverified Lists, the United States Department of Treasury Specially Designated
Nationals List, and the United States Department of State Debarred List. Visit
www.export.gov for more information or follow this link for the screening tool:
https://legacy.export.gov/csl-search <https://legacy.export.gov/csl-search> .
c. To any entity when Customer knows, or has reason to know, the end use of the software
product, customized software, Technical Data and/or third-party software obtained from
Hexagon, its subsidiaries, or distributors is related to the design, development,
production, or use of missiles, chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons, or other unsafeguarded or sensitive nuclear uses.
d. To any entity when Customer knows, or has reason to know, that an illegal reshipment
will take place.
Any questions regarding export/re-export of relevant Hexagon software product, customized
software, Technical Data, and/or third-party software obtained from Hexagon, its subsidiaries,
or distributors, should be addressed to Hexagon’s Export Compliance Department, 305
Intergraph Way, Madison, Alabama 35758 USA or at exportcompliance@intergraph.com.
Customer shall hold harmless and indemnify Hexagon and a Hexagon Group Company for
any causes of action, claims, costs, expenses and/or damages resulting to Hexagon or a
Hexagon Group Company from a breach by Customer.
Trademarks
Intergraph®, the Intergraph logo®, Intergraph Smart®, SmartPlant®, SmartMarine,
SmartSketch®, SmartPlant Cloud®, PDS®, FrameWorks®, I-Route, I-Export, ISOGEN®,
SPOOLGEN, SupportManager®, SupportModeler®, SAPPHIRE®, TANK, PV Elite®,
CADWorx®, CADWorx DraftPro®, GTSTRUDL®, CAESAR II® , and HxGN SDx® are
trademarks or registered trademarks of Intergraph Corporation or its affiliates, parents,
subsidiaries. Hexagon and the Hexagon logo are registered trademarks of Hexagon AB or its
subsidiaries. Other brands and product names are trademarks of their respective owners.

04/01/2024, 16:43

Hexagon Documentation Site Export

2039 of 2039

https://docs.hexagonppm.com/internal/api/webapp/print/40723468-bc9...

Customer Support and Technical User Forum
For the latest support information for this product, use a web browser to connect to the Smart
Community <https://hexagon.com/support-success/asset-lifecycle-intelligence/community> .
You can submit any documentation comments or suggestions you might have by logging on
to our documentation web site at https://docs.hexagonali.com <https://docs.hexagonali.com> .
To access the Technical User Forum, go to https://www.linkedin.com/groups/873447/
<https://www.linkedin.com/groups/873447/> .

Hexagon Policy Against Software Piracy
When you purchase or lease Hexagon’s Asset Lifecycle Intelligence division software,
Hexagon, Intergraph, or its affiliates, parents, subsidiaries retains ownership of the product.
You become the licensee of the product and obtain the right to use the product solely in
accordance with the terms of the Intergraph Corporation, doing business as Hexagon’s Asset
Lifecycle Intelligence division, Software License Agreement and applicable United States
and/or international copyright laws.
You must have a valid license for each working copy of the product. You may also make one
archival copy of the software to protect from inadvertent destruction of the original software,
but you are not permitted to use the archival copy for any other purpose. An upgrade replaces
the original license. Any use of working copies of the product for which there is no valid
Intergraph Corporation, doing business as Hexagon’s Asset Lifecycle Intelligence division,
Software License Agreement constitutes Software Piracy for which there are very severe
penalties. All Hexagon software products are protected by copyright laws and international
treaty.
If you have questions regarding software piracy or the legal use of Hexagon software
products, please call the Legal Department at 256-730-2362 in the U.S.
Updated June 2022
Document No. DDGL562C0

Copyright
Copyright© Hexagon AB and/or its subsidiaries and affiliates. All rights reserved.

04/01/2024, 16:43

